1. [u'carbons', u'carbonic', u'h carbon']
  The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Because the electronegative atoms have the potential to attract electrons, i.e., the electrons spend more time on the electronegative atom, a molecule containing an electronegative atom will have partial negative charge associated with that atom (as indicated by δ-). An ion is an atom or a molecule that carries a charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons.  The key biologically relevant elements are hydrogen (H), carbon (C), nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), phosphorous (P), and sulfur (S). Protons and neutrons are at the center of the atom and have a mass of 1 atomic mass unit (a.m.u) each. The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom.  Each atom in a molecule will complete its outer shell of electrons, which is 2 for hydrogen, and 8 for second row elements (e.g. In this case, each carbon still only participates in making four bonds. You should also take note of the standard color coding in 3D representations, usually carbon is gray, hydrogen white, oxygen red, nitrogen blue, and sulfur yellow. Both carbon and nitrogen also form tetrahydral shapes. Carbon and nitrogen can also form planer geometries, where all of the atoms that are bound to the carbon (or nitrogen) are in the same plane as the carbon or nitrogen. In the case of carbon, a planer geometry is usually observed if the carbon is involved in a double bond, while the tetrahydral geometry is found if the carbon is forming single bonds. In methanol, carbon forms four single bonds while in formaldehyde there is a double bond between the carbon and the oxygen. The carbon atom in methanol shows tetrahdyral geometry, while the carbon atom in formaldehdye is planer; the two hydrogens and oxygen lie in the same plane as the carbon.. Instructions: Compare the geometries of carbon atom in methanol and formaldhyde and then answer the questions below.  An important aspect of carbon bonding is the fact that carbon can covalently bond to four groups and that the bonding geometry of the carbon atom is tetrahedral. Therefore, if the four groups attached to the carbon are different, then two unique arrangements of the groups around the carbon atom are possible and this carbon is said to be an asymmetric center or a chiral center. The two arrangements of groups about the carbon are mirror images of each other and these two structures are referred to as enantiomers. This compound contains a chiral center at the middle, or second carbon, because that carbon has four different groups attached to it. Note that in both compounds the H and OH groups project out of the page towards you, but in the D form the -OH group is to the right of carbon two while in the L-form it points to the left. When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. One atom fully shares one, two or three electrons with another atom., forming a single, double, or triple bond, respectively. Double bonds: Two carbons attached by a double covalent bond can only undergo 180 degree rotations and the atoms bound to these carbons are constrained to lie in the same plane as the carbon atom.. Rotation about the carbon-carbon bond has structural implications for molecules in which they are found. Both carbon and nitrogen also form tetrahydral shapes. Carbon and nitrogen can also form planer geometries, where all of the atoms that are bound to the carbon (or nitrogen) are in the same plane as the carbon or nitrogen. In the case of carbon, a planer geometry is usually observed if the carbon is involved in a double bond, while the tetrahydral geometry is found if the carbon is forming single bonds. In methanol, carbon forms four single bonds while in formaldehyde there is a double bond between the carbon and the oxygen. The carbon atom in methanol shows tetrahdyral geometry, while the carbon atom in formaldehdye is planer; the two hydrogens and oxygen lie in the same plane as the carbon.. Instructions: Compare the geometries of carbon atom in methanol and formaldhyde and then answer the questions below.  An important aspect of carbon bonding is the fact that carbon can covalently bond to four groups and that the bonding geometry of the carbon atom is tetrahedral. Therefore, if the four groups attached to the carbon are different, then two unique arrangements of the groups around the carbon atom are possible and this carbon is said to be an asymmetric center or a chiral center. The two arrangements of groups about the carbon are mirror images of each other and these two structures are referred to as enantiomers. This compound contains a chiral center at the middle, or second carbon, because that carbon has four different groups attached to it. Note that in both compounds the H and OH groups project out of the page towards you, but in the D form the -OH group is to the right of carbon two while in the L-form it points to the left. When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. One atom fully shares one, two or three electrons with another atom., forming a single, double, or triple bond, respectively. Double bonds: Two carbons attached by a double covalent bond can only undergo 180 degree rotations and the atoms bound to these carbons are constrained to lie in the same plane as the carbon atom.. Rotation about the carbon-carbon bond has structural implications for molecules in which they are found. The attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge.  This anomeric carbon is the target for the formation of a covalent bond between it and potentially any hydroxyl functional group on any other monosacchardie.  It should also be noted that while the transformation from the alpha to the beta form of an individual carbohydrate at the anomeric carbon is freely reversible and dictated by equilibrium, that freedom of conversion is lost once the anomeric carbon is involved in a glycosidic bond. In doing this, two components will remain unchanged, the aldehyde group will always be the number one carbon and the bottom or last two carbons will always represent the D form of the carbohydrate (monosaccharide). How many possible structures result from adding another carbon to this carbohydrate?  Similarly, an additional carbon can be added to the pentoses to form the possible hexoses (six carbon monosaccharides). For ribose this means that if the oxygen on the number 4 carbon forms a bond with the number one aldehyde carbon and the hydrogen on the hydroxyl shifts to the carbonyl oxygen on the aldehyde the result is a five-member ring referred to as a furanose. Examination of the result of this transformation, in which the total number of carbons, hydrogens and oxygens between the two structures has not changed, shows that the number one carbon has now become a new asymmetric (chiral) center where it wasn’t before the ring closure. This new chiral center is called the anomeric carbon. Epimers: Monosaccharides that differ by chirality at one position (besides the anomeric carbon) are called epimers. Instructions: Use the 3D representations of glucose and galactose to determine which carbon differs in chirality between the two aldoses. A ketose is a carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon that is flanked by carbons on both sides. If we examine the result of adding a single carbon, the result is the acquisition of an new asymmetric center. The fructose structure has the ketone group as at the number 2 carbon and the D designation based on the chirality at carbon number 5.  In the case of the structure on the left, the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. In contrast, the structure on the right has its carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) and this carbonyl is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus, making this carbonyl a ketone. A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. The number 1 carbon has three bonding partners: an oxygen that is double bonded to the carbon, a hydrogen, and the remainder of the structure. The number 2 carbon has an aldehyde, a hydrogen, a hydroxyl group and the rest of the molecule attached, while the number three carbon has a hydroxyl, two hydrogens and the upper portion of the molecule attached. The number 2 carbon isthe only carbon that has its four bonds involved with four different groups and, thus, is a unique carbon identified as a chiral or asymmetric center. While the glycosidic bond is always between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and the hydroxyl of another carbohydrate, the number of hydroxyls per monosaccharide and the different orientations of the hydroxyl on the anomeric carbon make the number of potential structures extremely large. The chemical structure is described as galactose-beta1,4-glucose; the anomeric carbon of galactose is in the beta conformation and is connected to carbon 4 on glucose. While the glycosidic bond is always between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and the hydroxyl of another carbohydrate, the number of hydroxyls per monosaccharide and the different orientations of the hydroxyl on the anomeric carbon make the number of potential structures extremely large. The chemical structure is described as galactose-beta1,4-glucose; the anomeric carbon of galactose is in the beta conformation and is connected to carbon 4 on glucose. The first carbon adjacent to the carboxyl group is the -carbon, followed by the -carbon, etc. Note that the proton is often not drawn, but its existence should be inferred from the fact that carbon forms four single bonds. Chirality: Because there are four different groups attached to the central carbon, the –carbon is an asymmetric or chiral center. The first carbon adjacent to the carboxyl group is the -carbon, followed by the -carbon, etc. Note that the proton is often not drawn, but its existence should be inferred from the fact that carbon forms four single bonds. Chirality: Because there are four different groups attached to the central carbon, the –carbon is an asymmetric or chiral center. The carbonyl electrons are partially shared by the carbon nitrogen peptide bond giving the carbonyl carbon/amide nitrogen bond a slight double bond character. The figure below depicts the six atoms that are included in the planar peptide bond: the carbonyl carbon, the carbonyl oxygen, the alpha carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon, the amide nitrogen (of the second amino acid), the hydrogen attached to the amide nitrogen, and the alpha carbon of the second amino acid. Since there is no rotation around the C-N bond of the peptide bond, the only possible freedom of rotation in an amino acid residue is the carbonyl carbon-alpha carbon single bond, which is denoted as psi(), and the amide nitrogen-alpha carbon single bond, which is called phi().  The steroids are a family of lipids based on a molecule with four fused carbon rings. Saturated fatty acids have no carbon-carbon double bonds (they are saturated with hydrogen), while the unsaturated fatty acids have one to three double bonds along the backbone carbon chain. These double bonds introduce "kinks" in the carbon chain which have important consequences on the fluid nature of lipid membranes. The hydrolysis of the thioester can be used to synthesize nucleoside triphosphates or to facilitate the formation of carbon-carbon bonds, as shown below. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond.  Glucose, a six carbon hexose, is the input compound. Pyruvate, a three carbon keto-acid is the output. There is no loss of carbon in glycolysis, so two pyruvates are produced/glucose.  Glucose, a six carbon hexose, is the input compound. Pyruvate, a three carbon keto-acid is the output. There is no loss of carbon in glycolysis, so two pyruvates are produced/glucose. All carbons that enter the TCA cycle, regardless of their source, are fully oxidized to carbon dioxide.  Fats are stored in cells as triglycerides, the condensation product of three fatty acids with the three carbon polyalcohol glycerol. Consequently, once ingested carbon from any source, fats, protein, or carbohydrates, is converted to acetyl-CoA it has only two fates:  Fats are stored in cells as triglycerides, the condensation product of three fatty acids with the three carbon polyalcohol glycerol. Consequently, once ingested carbon from any source, fats, protein, or carbohydrates, is converted to acetyl-CoA it has only two fates: Atom The diagram below illustrates a molecule of methane (CH4), in which four hydrogen (H) atoms are covalently bonded to one carbon (C) atom. An ion is an atom or a molecule that carries a charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. Plants take up nutrients through their roots (water and dissolved minerals) and from the air (carbon dioxide gas). Mass of an atom.  Number of protons in each atom, which is equal to the number of electrons in each atom--unless the atom is ionized. As seen in this diagram of an atom, lithium has three protons in its nucleus. In the diagram below that illustrates the formation of a methane molecule, the carbon atom shares each of its 4 valence electrons with one hydrogen atom, which in turn shares its 1 valence electron with the carbon atom. One atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by a cloud of electrons. The diagram below represents an atom of carbon.  The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself.  Weak electrostatic attraction that occurs between the partial positive charge on the H atom of one polar molecule and the partial negative charge in some region of another polar molecule. An atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and consequently has a positive or a negative charge. In the formation of an ionic bond, electrons are said to be transferred from one atom to another. Carbon-12 (the number after the hyphen, 12 in this example, indicates the atomic mass), which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons and Carbon-13, which has 6 protons and 7 neutrons are two isotopes of carbon. Here, in a study of basic chemistry, nucleus means "the center of an atom." In this case, the nucleus is a central area in which the atom’s heavy particles (protons and neutrons) are packed close together.  The electrons in the outermost shell of the atom, which are available for chemical bonding. This diagram of a carbon atom illustrates that carbon has 4 valence electrons. Atom for atom, all the matter that was the wolf can be accounted for, and it is recycled through the ecosystem. Instead, they absorb very simple nutrients like water and carbon dioxide gas. A carbon atom is shown here. As you will find out, carbon is a very important atom in biology. A carbon atom is shown here. As you will find out, carbon is a very important atom in biology. The atom is the basic unit of matter and consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by electrons. In Unit 3: Biological Macromolecules, you will focus on the four classes of carbon-based macromolecules that comprise living systems: carbohydrates, fats, proteins and nucleic acids. A carbon atom is shown here. As you will find out, carbon is a very important atom in biology. In this unit, we will focus in on the four classes of carbon-based macromolecules that comprise living systems: carbohydrates, fats, proteins and nucleic acids. In this unit, we will focus in on the four classes of carbon-based macromolecules that comprise living systems: carbohydrates, fats, proteins and nucleic acids. In this course, the smallest level we will examine is the atom which is the basic unit of matter. The atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by electrons. In this course, the smallest level we will examine is the atom, which is the basic unit of matter. The atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by electrons. The most important are carbon (C), hydrogen (H), oxygen (O), nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and sulfur (S). Limestone rock, coal, and diamonds are some solid materials rich in carbon. You would starve without suitable organic macromolecules (food), even if you were surrounded by carbon-rich limestone, air, and wood. It would starve without access to carbon dioxide gas, even if you planted its roots in a juicy porterhouse steak. We will discuss four cycles that are key for living things: the water, carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus cycles. Carbon is cycled through a variety of biological and physical processes. Photosynthesis removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere; aerobic respiration by living plants and animals returns carbon to the air. Decomposition, a combination of aerobic respiration and fermentation carried out by microbes, takes carbon from dead material and returns it to the atmosphere. In the much longer term, geologic processes store carbon in fossil fuels and in rocks such as limestone. This stored carbon is slowly returned to active circulation by erosion of rock and by volcanic eruptions. A grass plant, for instance, requires light, carbon dioxide gas, soil nutrients, and water. Its living tissue contains organic molecules rich in carbon (C), hydrogen (H), nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), phosphorus (P), sulfur (S), and other elements. Biologically important chemicals such as water, carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycle between the biotic and abiotic components of an ecosystem. We can also work to increase the extent and growth of carbon-absorbing forests. Within the United States and Europe several trends such as greater efficiency and a shift toward renewable and nuclear power have led to reduced emissions of carbon dioxide per dollar of goods and services generated. Carbon dioxide emissions per dollar of national economic activity in China, the United States, and France in 2009. For each unit of economic activity, China generated four times as much carbon dioxide than did France. Three important greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4). In terms of its total effect on climate, the most significant greenhouse gas is carbon dioxide. As of May 2012, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is about 397 ppm (parts per million). After completing this unit, you should have an understanding of the different subatomic particles that make up the atom: protons, neutrons, and electrons. After completing this unit, you should have an understanding of the different subatomic particles that make up the atom: protons, neutrons, and electrons. After completing this unit, you should have an understanding of the different subatomic particles that make up the atom: protons, neutrons, and electrons. Any substance lacking molecules that contain a carbon atom bonded to a hydrogen atom. Examples of common inorganic substances are: water, oxygen gas, carbon dioxide and ionic salts.  an organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a certain proportion. Mass of an atom.  Number of protons in each atom, which is equal to the number of electrons in each atom--unless the atom is ionized. As seen in this diagram of an atom, lithium has three protons in its nucleus. In the diagram below that illustrates the formation of a methane molecule, the carbon atom shares each of its 4 valence electrons with one hydrogen atom, which in turn shares its 1 valence electron with the carbon atom. The ability of an atom to draw shared electrons closer to itself. The attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom.  Weak electrostatic attraction that occurs between the partial positive charge on the hydrogen atom of one polar molecule and the partial negative charge in some region of another polar molecule. An atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and consequently has a positive or a negative charge. Carbon-12 (the number after the hyphen, 12 in this example, indicates the atomic mass), which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons and Carbon-13, which has 6 protons and 7 neutrons are two isotopes of carbon. Here, in a study of basic chemistry, nucleus means "the center of an atom." In this case, the nucleus is a central area in which the atom’s heavy particles (protons and neutrons) are packed close together.  The electrons in the outermost shell of the atom, which are available for chemical bonding. This diagram of a carbon atom illustrates that carbon has four (4) valence electrons. Molecules containing a carbon atom that is covalently bonded to a hydrogen atom (C-H bonds). In this unit (or module) we will start with the atom and the subatomic particles that form the atom and move to a discussion of molecules and the four biologically important macromolecules, carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. In biological systems, the major elements are Carbon (C), Nitrogen (N), Oxygen (O), Phosphorus (P), and Hydrogen (H). All elements are composed of a single type of atom. Amazingly, however, physicists now understand that most of the volume of an atom is empty space. One model of the atom that helps us understand chemistry better is shown in the diagram below. Amazingly, however, physicists now understand that most of the volume of an atom is actually made up of empty space. One model of the atom is shown in the diagram below. The number of protons, neutrons, and electrons are characteristics of an atom. Differences in the number of these subatomic particles are what distinguish one type of atom from another. Furthermore, each of these subatomic particles has an electrical charge that influences how one atom will interact with another. Notice in the diagram of an atom above that the protons have a plus sign (+) indicating their positive electrical charge. When the number of protons equals the number of electrons, then the atom is electrically neutral. If the number of protons differs from the number of electrons, then the atom has an electrical charge. An atom with more or less protons than electrons is called an ion. The electrical charge of an atom governs its behavior when it comes into contact with another atom; that is, how the atom reacts with other atoms. Protons and neutrons reside in the nucleus (center) of the atom. Electrons are found outside of the nucleus, in zones that are called “shells.” The mass of an atom is called the “atomic mass”. Each of the heavy particles (neutron, proton) weighs one atomic mass unit, so a Helium atom (two protons, two neutrons, and two electrons) weighs about four atomic mass units. Electrons and the protons of the nucleus attract each other, and this is the force that keeps the atom together, much like the force of gravity keeps the moon in orbit around Earth. Protons and neutrons reside in the nucleus (center) of the atom and have a mass of one atomic mass unit (amu) each. The mass of an atom is called the atomic mass. Each of the heavy particles (neutron, proton) weighs one atomic mass unit, so a Helium (He) atom, which has two protons, two neutrons, and two electrons, weighs about four atomic mass units; that is, two protons plus two neutrons. Electrons and the protons of the nucleus attract each other, and this is the force that keeps the atom together, much like the force of gravity keeps the moon in orbit around Earth. The first key characteristic that truly identifies an element is its atomic number, the number of protons in each atom. If an atom has 2 protons, it has an atomic number of 2 and it is helium.  The first key characteristic that truly identifies an element is its atomic number which is the number of protons in each atom. If an atom has two protons, it has an atomic number of two, and it is helium (He). If an atom has three protons in its nucleus, it is a lithium (Li) atom. A carbon atom, which has six protons and six neutrons, would have an atomic mass of 12. Because the mass of a single atom is so small, it is not a convenient unit for everyday use. A mole contains 6.022 x 1023 particles and is defined as the number of particles of carbon (C) that give an atomic weight of 12 grams. A carbon atom that has six neutrons would have an atomic mass of 12; a carbon atom with eight neutrons would have an atomic mass of 14. There are some atoms of carbon with an atomic mass of 13 (carbon 13), and some with 14 (carbon 14). These are isotopes of the carbon atom. Carbon 12 is the most abundant or prevalent isotopic form of carbon. Because carbon 12 is the most abundant form and taking into account all of carbon's different isotopes, the average value for the atomic mass for carbon is near 12: it's listed at 12.01. A carbon atom which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons has an atomic mass of 12. A carbon atom that has 6 neutrons would have an atomic mass of 12; a carbon with 8 neutrons would have an atomic mass of 14. These are isotopes of the carbon atom. The atomic mass given for Carbon (12.01) is an average value, taking into account all of Carbon’s different isotopes. The electron is the reactive part of the atom. There are specific rules for filling up the shells of the atom. So what would you predict about the overall charge of an atom with an equal number of protons and electrons? There is no charge; the atom will not be attracted to or repelled by charged objects. As you recall, an atom is most stable when it has a full outer shell. When this happens, the atom becomes an ion and it takes on an overall charge. The most stable situation for an atom is to have its outer shell completely filled with electrons. The outer shell of carbon has 4 electrons. It has a single electron in its outermost shell, and can share this electron with one other atom. A carbon atom can form a covalent bond with four hydrogen atoms to form a molecule called methane, CH4 . In a methane molecule, carbon effectively has a “full” second shell (8 electrons) and each hydrogen has a “full” second shell (two electrons). The outer shell of carbon has 5 electrons. It has a single electron in its outermost shell, and can share this electron with one other atom. Each atom is represented by its element symbol. The skeletal diagrams are often drawn to be simple, not to show every atom. It is understood that carbon must have four bonds, and in any carbon-based molecule there are often one, two, or even three hydrogen atoms bonded to each carbon. The cholesterol molecule, shown below, looks much cleaner than if we had to draw each carbon and hydrogen atom. Because carbon has four electrons in its outer shell, it can always form four covalent bonds with other elements. Carbon can form long chains as each carbon forms covalent bonds with multiple other carbons. In the case of carbon, this simply means that carbon will form four covalent bonds. (The first carbon actually formed two bonds with the oxygen atom; this is called a double bond. This carbon still formed a total of four bonds, even though two of the bonds are with the same oxygen atom.) Skeletal Formulas: Chains of carbon atoms are very common in carbon-based molecules. In these diagrams, the carbon atom, typically indicated with the letter “C,” is not shown. Instead, each C atom is drawn simply as a corner on the diagram. Each atom is represented by its element symbol. The skeletal diagrams are often drawn to be simple, not to show every atom. It is understood that carbon must have 4 bonds, and in any carbon-based molecule there are often 1, 2, or even 3 hydrogen atoms bonded to each carbon. The cholesterol molecule, shown below, looks much cleaner than if we had to draw each carbon and hydrogen atom. Because carbon has four electrons in its outer shell, it can always form four covalent bonds with other elements. Carbon can form long chains as each carbon forms covalent bonds with multiple other carbons. In the case of carbon, this simply means that carbon will form four covalent bonds. (The first carbon actually formed two bonds with the oxygen atom; this is called a double bond. This carbon still formed a total of four bonds, even though two of the bonds are with the oxygen atom.) Skeletal Formulas: Chains of carbon atoms are very common in carbon-based molecules. In these diagrams, the carbon atom, typically indicated with the letter “C” , is not shown. Instead, each C atom is drawn simply as a corner on the diagram. The outer shell of carbon has 4 electrons. It has a single electron in its outermost shell, and can share this electron with one other atom. In a methane molecule, carbon effectively has a “full” second shell (8 electrons) and each hydrogen has a “full” second shell (two electrons). When drawing a molecule on paper, covalent bonds are drawn as lines between atom. Carbon, in particular, can form long chains as each carbon forms a covalent bond with multiple other carbons.  When drawing molecular formulas it is important to make sure that each atom has a full outer shell. Because carbon is such a common backbone for molecules, it is often drawn simply as corners on the diagram. In this situation, the nitrogen or oxygen atom of one molecule is attracted to the hydrogen atom in a neighboring molecule. Instead, they are the attraction of an electronegative atom to a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of the hydrogen with a partial positive charge to the electronegative atom with a partial negative charge. Because of this, the electrons tend to spend more time close to the oxygen atom and they spend less time close to the hydrogen atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. Because the electrons are more strongly attracted to the oxygen, the electron pair is unevenly distributed between the oxygen and each hydrogen atom . Hydrogen is moderately electronegative, with a value of 2.1, carbon is somewhat more electronegative, with a value of 2.5, and fluorine is the most electronegative atom, with a value of 4.0. For example, in carbon-carbon bonds, both atoms have the same electronegativity, so the electrons are equally shared between the two carbons. The less electronegative atom (carbon) will donate part of its electrons to the more electronegative atom (oxygen), resulting in a partial positive charge on the carbon (indicated by δ+) and a partial negative charge on the oxygen (indicated by δ-). An atom is the smallest unit of an element that retains all of the properties of that element. So, an element is a substance that is composed of a single type of atom. But, how do you know what kind of atom you have? Count the number of protons in the atom’s nucleus, and that will tell you what kind of element that atom is. The number of protons in an atom is denoted by the atomic number displayed for each element in the periodic table. It is the number of protons found in the nucleus of the atom that determines the kind of element designated by the atom. In biological systems, the major elements are carbon (C), hydrogen (H), nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), phosphorus (P), and sulfur (S). In this unit we will start with the atom and the subatomic particles that form the atom and move to a discussion of molecules and the four biologically important macromolecules, carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. In this unit we will begin by studying the atom and the subatomic particles that form the atom. In this unit, we will begin by studying the atom and the subatomic particles that form the atom. This unit will focus on the atom. The electronegative atom will have a slight negative charge, and the atom that it is bonded to it will have a slight positive charge. The electronegative atom will have a slight negative charge, and the atom that it is bonded to it will have a slight positive charge. In this case, the reaction releases some carbon dioxide gas, generating fizz and fun. The oceans and the organisms that live in them play a critical role in maintaining the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide on this planet. With the increased burning of fossil fuels in the modern industrial society, more man-made carbon dioxide (CO2) is being released into the environment than ever before. Much of this carbon dioxide is absorbed by the oceans. When carbon dioxide is absorbed into water, carbonic acid is produced. As carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere continue to climb, there is great concern about the worsening impact of ocean acidification. A carbohydrate is an organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Each monomer has the proportion of carbon to hydrogen to oxygen in the ratio of 1:2:1, or CH2O. You can see why these compounds are called carbohydrates; in a monomer, each carbon is “hydrated.” Complex carbohydrates are made up of more than two sugar monomers covalently bonded together. A carbohydrate is an organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Each monomer has the proportion of carbon to hydrogen to oxygen in the ratio of 1:2:1, or CH2O). You can see why these compounds are called carbohydrates; in a monomer, each carbon is “hydrated.” Complex carbohydrates are made up of more than two sugar monomers linked together. The root “mono” means "one," and “saccharide” refers to an organic molecule where the ratio of carbon:hydrogen:oxygen is 1:2:1 (i.e., CNH2NON). Glucose, fructose (fruit sugar), and galactose are examples of six-carbon monosaccharides. A common five-carbon monosaccharide is ribose (the sugar component of RNA), which has a molecular formula of C5H10O5. Often referred to as "carbs," carbohydrate molecules consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a 1:2:1 ratio. An organic molecule is any molecule that contains a carbon to hydrogen (C-H) covalent bond. A single carbon atom is able to bond with up to four other atoms, allowing the formation of chains, branched chains, and even rings. A single carbon atom is able to bond with up to four other atoms, allowing the formation of chains, branched chains, and even rings. You should also take note of the standard color coding in 3D representations: usually carbon is gray, hydrogen is white, oxygen is red, nitrogen is blue, and sulfur is yellow.  This anomeric carbon is the target for the formation of a covalent bond between it and potentially any hydroxyl functional group on any other monosacchardie.  It should also be noted that while the transformation from the alpha to the beta form of an individual carbohydrate at the anomeric carbon is freely reversible and dictated by equilibrium, that freedom of conversion is lost once the anomeric carbon is involved in a glycosidic bond. How many possible structures result from adding another carbon to this carbohydrate?  Similarly, an additional carbon can be added to the pentoses to form the possible hexoses (six carbon monosaccharides). For ribose this means that if the oxygen on the number 4 carbon forms a bond with the number one aldehyde carbon and the hydrogen on the hydroxyl shifts to the carbonyl oxygen on the aldehyde the result is a five-member ring referred to as a furanose. Examination of the result of this transformation, in which the total number of carbons, hydrogens and oxygens between the two structures has not changed, shows that the number one carbon has now become a new asymmetric (chiral) center where it wasn’t before the ring closure. This new chiral center is called the anomeric carbon.  In the case of the structure on the left, the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. In contrast, the structure on the right has its carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) and this carbonyl is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus, making this carbonyl a ketone. Epimers: Monosaccharides that differ by chirality at one position (besides the anomeric carbon) are called epimers. Instructions: Use the 3D representations of glucose and galactose to determine which carbon differs in chirality between the two aldoses. A ketose is a carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon that is flanked by carbons on both sides. If we examine the result of adding a single carbon, the result is the acquisition of an new asymmetric center. The fructose structure has the ketone group as at the number 2 carbon and the D designation based on the chirality at carbon number 5. A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. The number 1 carbon has three bonding partners: an oxygen that is double bonded to the carbon, a hydrogen, and the remainder of the structure. The number 2 carbon has an aldehyde, a hydrogen, a hydroxyl group and the rest of the molecule attached, while the number three carbon has a hydroxyl, two hydrogens and the upper portion of the molecule attached. The number 2 carbon isthe only carbon that has its four bonds involved with four different groups and, thus, is a unique carbon identified as a chiral or asymmetric center. In doing this, two components will remain unchanged, the aldehyde group will always be the number one carbon and the bottom or last two carbons will always represent the D form of the carbohydrate (monosaccharide). Often referred to as "carbs," carbohydrate molecules consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a 1:2:1 ratio. While the glycosidic bond is always between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and the hydroxyl of another carbohydrate, the number of hydroxyls per monosaccharide and the different orientations of the hydroxyl on the anomeric carbon make the number of potential structures extremely large. The chemical structure is described as galactose-beta1,4-glucose; the anomeric carbon of galactose is in the beta conformation and is connected to carbon 4 on glucose. This carbon is called the alpha carbon since it is directly attached to the carboxyl group. The amino differ in the nature of the organic group that is attached to the central alpha carbon. Finally, there is a variable “R group” also attached to the alpha carbon. After metabolizing the lactose, the bacteria produce large volumes of carbon dioxide (CO2) gas, which results in significant discomfort for the individual lacking lactase. The carbonyl electrons are partially shared by the carbon nitrogen peptide bond giving the carbonyl carbon/amide nitrogen bond a slight double bond character. The figure below depicts the six atoms that are included in the planar peptide bond: the carbonyl carbon, the carbonyl oxygen, the alpha carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon, the amide nitrogen (of the second amino acid), the hydrogen attached to the amide nitrogen, and the alpha carbon of the second amino acid. Since there is no rotation around the C-N bond of the peptide bond, the only possible freedom of rotation in an amino acid residue is the carbonyl carbon-alpha carbon single bond, which is denoted as psi(), and the amide nitrogen-alpha carbon single bond, which is called phi(). This is because they are hydrocarbons that include many nonpolar carbon-carbon or carbon-hydrogen bonds. They vary in shape from multiple carbon rings to long carbon chains. In saturated fatty acids, all of the carbon-carbon bonds are single bonds and each carbon is bonded to two or three H atoms; each carbon is “saturated” with hydrogen. Cellular respiration is catabolic because it takes glucose (a complex molecule with 6 carbons) and reduces it to carbon dioxide (each with only one carbon) and water (oxygen joined to two hydrogens). Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond.  Carbon-containing molecules used as cellular fuel are broken down and converted to carbon dioxide (CO2).  Glucose, a six carbon hexose, is the input compound. Pyruvate, a three carbon keto-acid is the output. There is no loss of carbon in glycolysis, so two pyruvates are produced/glucose. But ultimately, the reason we need to breathe is to provide the oxygen needed to carry out cellular respiration in our cells and to remove the carbon dioxide produced as a byproduct.  The carbon-containing molecules used as cellular fuel are broken down and converted to carbon dioxide (CO2). Glucose is a six carbon sugar. In glycolysis, glucose is split into two three-carbon molecules called pyruvate. In this step the 3 carbon pyruvate from glycolysis is broken down into a 2-carbon molecule called “acetyl CoA”. The extra carbon is released as carbon dioxide (CO2). The 2-carbon acetyl CoA is bound to a 4-carbon molecule called Oxaloacetate to make a 6-carbon molecule called Citric Acid (which is where the cycle gets its name). The 6-carbon citrate is then broken back down into the 4-carbon oxaloacetate. The products of cellular respiration (water and carbon dioxide) are the precursors that feed into photosynthesis. The products of cellular respiration (water and carbon dioxide) are the precursors that feed into photosynthesis. If there was no way for the carbon dioxide produced through cellular respiration to be utilized, respiring organisms (like humans, dogs, and even grass) would soon die of asphyxiation. Since the late 1700's, the amount of carbon dioxide in the Earth’s atmosphere has been rising. This indicates that the natural recycling of carbon has been upset. The main source of excess carbon dioxide in our atmosphere is the burning of fossil fuels, which were created by photosynthesis millions of years ago. The carbon dioxide concentration of Earth’s air has increased by more than 35 percent since the 1700's. Water and light are essential for building sugar (C6H12O6), but neither of these contain carbon. To build sugar, photosynthesis needs a carbon source. Where do plants get this carbon? Applying the principle of conservation of matter, van Helmont knew that the tree’s carbon couldn’t just appear from nowhere. Jean-Baptist van Helmont’s experiment shows that the carbon needed for photosynthesis does not come from the soil. However, the experiment does not indicate where the carbon does come from. A number of other studies conducted by scientists over many decades were required to show the precise source of the carbon. Today, we know that CO2 from the air is the source of carbon for photosynthesis. Water and light are essential for building sugar (C6H12O6), but neither of these contain carbon. To build sugar, photosynthesis needs a carbon source. Where do plants get this carbon? Applying the principle of conservation of matter, van Helmont knew that the tree’s carbon couldn’t just appear from nowhere. Jean-Baptist van Helmont’s experiment shows that the carbon needed for photosynthesis does not come from the soil. However, the experiment does not indicate where the carbon does come from. A number of other studies conducted by scientists over many decades were required to show the precise source of the carbon. Today, we know that CO2 from the air is the source of carbon for photosynthesis. Water and light are essential for building sugar (C6H12O6), but neither of these contain carbon. To build sugar, photosynthesis needs a carbon source. Where do photosynthetic organisms get this carbon? Jean-Baptist van Helmont’s experiment shows that the carbon needed for photosynthesis does not come from the soil. It does not show where the carbon does come from. A number of other studies conducted by scientists over many decades were required to show where the carbon comes from. Today, we know that CO2 is the source of carbon for photosynthesis. Cellular respiration starts with a pathway called glycolysis, which degrades three-carbon glucose into a three-carbon molecule called pyruvate. Two common carbon sources are the sugars glucose and lactose (milk sugar). Two common carbon sources are the sugars glucose and lactose (milk sugar). The two major organ systems that serve to exchange nutrients and waste with the environment are the digestive system (food and feces) and respiratory system (oxygen and carbon dioxide). The products of these processes include solid waste, liquid waste, and carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is then exhaled through the airways to the external environment. In a similar fashion, these systems also use the blood to remove carbon dioxide from cells and release it into the external environment. The pulmonary artery (part of the pulmonary circuit) carries oxygen-poor blood from the right ventricle of the heart to the lungs for oxygenation and removal of carbon dioxide. The respiratory system brings in oxygen and removes carbon dioxide. In the diagram below that illustrates the formation of a methane molecule, the carbon atom shares each of its 4 valence electrons with one hydrogen atom, which in turn shares its 1 valence electron with the carbon atom.  The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Three important greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4).  Weak electrostatic attraction that occurs between the partial positive charge on the H atom of one polar molecule and the partial negative charge in some region of another polar molecule.  An atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and consequently has a positive or a negative charge. In the formation of an ionic bond, electrons are said to be transferred from one atom to another. Carbon-12 (the number after the hyphen, 12 in this example, indicates the atomic mass), which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons and Carbon-13, which has 6 protons and 7 neutrons are two isotopes of carbon. The diagram below illustrates a molecule of methane (CH4), in which four hydrogen (H) atoms are covalently bonded to one carbon (C) atom. Here, in a study of basic chemistry, nucleus means "the center of an atom." In this case, the nucleus is a central area in which the atom’s heavy particles (protons and neutrons) are packed close together. Plants take up nutrients through their roots (water and dissolved minerals) and from the air (carbon dioxide gas). One atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by a cloud of electrons. The diagram below represents an atom of lithium. Mass of an atom.  Number of protons in each atom, which is equal to the number of electrons in each atom--unless the atom is ionized. As seen in this diagram of an atom, lithium has three protons in its nucleus.  The electrons in the outermost shell of the atom, which are available for chemical bonding. This diagram of a carbon atom illustrates that carbon has 4 valence electrons. Partially negative atom with lone pair of electrons must also be a highly electronegative atom like oxygen or nitrogen. An ion is an atom or a molecule that carries a charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. A carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) that is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus making this carbonyl a ketone, is a ketose. A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde The number of protons that a given atom of an element contains. When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom. The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Because the electronegative atoms have the potential to attract electrons, i.e., the electrons spend more time on the electronegative atom, a molecule containing an electronegative atom will have partial negative charge associated with that atom (as indicated by δ-). The tendancy of an atom to hold shared electrons more close to its nucleus. This means when oxygen forms a covalent bond with an atom of lower electronegativity, the shared electrons will stay closer to the oxygen atom than to the other atom.  An important aspect of carbon bonding is the fact that carbon can covalently bond to four groups and that the bonding geometry of the carbon atom is tetrahedral. Therefore, if the four groups attached to the carbon are different, then two unique arrangements of the groups around the carbon atom are possible and this carbon is said to be an asymmetric center or a chiral center. The two arrangements of groups about the carbon are mirror images of each other and these two structures are referred to as enantiomers. A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde Fermentation reactions do not require oxygen, and they do not break down all glucose fully to carbon dioxide. Three important greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4). A small organic molecule with the structure of an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, and an “R” group, which are all bonded to a single central carbon atom. Partially negative atom with lone pair of electrons must also be a highly electronegative atom like oxygen or nitrogen. Any substance lacking molecules that contain a carbon atom bonded to a hydrogen atom. Examples of common inorganic substances are: water, oxygen gas, carbon dioxide and ionic salts.  An atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and consequently has a positive or a negative charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. In the formation of an ionic bond, electrons are said to be transferred from one atom to another. Carbon-12 (the number after the hyphen, 12 in this example, indicates the atomic mass), which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons and Carbon-13, which has 6 protons and 7 neutrons are two isotopes of carbon. The diagram below illustrates a molecule of methane (CH4) consisting of four hydrogen (H) atoms covalently bonded to one carbon (C) atom. Examples: the molecular formula of water is H2O, carbon dioxide is CO2, and sugar glucose is C6H12O6. Functional groups of a molecule that do not contain an electronegative atom; therefore, the functional group is non-polar. Here, in a study of basic chemistry, nucleus means "the center of an atom." In this case, the nucleus is a central area in which the atom’s heavy particles (protons and neutrons) are packed close together. Plants take up nutrients through their roots (water and dissolved minerals) and from the air (carbon dioxide gas). Molecules containing a carbon atom that is covalently bonded to a hydrogen atom (C-H bonds). No, because they are not built from carbon. A covalent bond that forms between a highly electronegative atom (e.g. N and O) and a non-highly electronegative atom. This results in an uneven distribution of the charge (because the electrons spend more time around the electronegative atom) causing one end of the bond to have a more positive charge on the end with the non-electronegative atom and a more negative charge on the end with the electronegative atom. Functional groups that contain an electronegative atom rendering the functional group polar. One atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by a cloud of electrons. The diagram below represents an atom of carbon. Saturated fatty acids have no carbon-carbon double bonds. All of the carbon-carbon bonds are single bonds and each carbon is bonded to two or three hydrogen atoms; each carbon is “saturated” with hydrogen. Also known as the atomic weight, the approximate weight of an atom.  Number of protons in each atom, which is equal to the number of electrons in each atom--unless the atom is ionized. As seen in this diagram of an atom, lithium has three protons in its nucleus. Fats and oils have three long carbon chains attached to glycerol (a short carbon chain). Unsaturated fatty acids have one, two, or even three double bonds along the carbon “backbone.” In each double bond, the carbons are bonded to only one hydrogen atom.  The electrons in the outermost shell of the atom, which are available for chemical bonding. This diagram of a carbon atom illustrates that carbon has four (4) valence electrons. An organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a certain proportion. A molecule in the steroid family of lipids that includes four fused carbon rings. In the diagram below that illustrates the formation of a methane molecule, the carbon atom shares each of its four (4) valence electrons with one hydrogen atom, which in turn shares its one valence electron with the carbon atom. The attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. An ion is an atom or a molecule that carries a charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. A carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) that is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus making this carbonyl a ketone, is a ketose. A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom. The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Because the electronegative atoms have the potential to attract electrons, i.e., the electrons spend more time on the electronegative atom, a molecule containing an electronegative atom will have partial negative charge associated with that atom (as indicated by δ-). The attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. An ion is an atom or molecule which has lost or gained one or more electrons, making it positively or negatively charged.We need a complete definition A carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) that is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus making this carbonyl a ketone, is a ketose. A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom. The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Because the electronegative atoms have the potential to attract electrons, i.e., the electrons spend more time on the electronegative atom, a molecule containing an electronegative atom will have partial negative charge associated with that atom (as indicated by δ-). The –carbon is the carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon.

2. [u'different', u'difference', u'differences']
  Welcome to the OLI version of Modern Biology. This introductory course is called "Modern Biology" because it is focused on topics at the forefront of experimentation in the fields of cellular biology, molecular biology, biochemistry, and genetics. It is carefully planned to provide the background students will need for advanced biology classes. Students from other disciplines may also find this course useful as it explains many of the concepts and techniques currently discussed in the popular press and applied in other contexts.  This Modern Biology course is built around several key concepts that provide unifying explanations for how and why structures are formed and processes occur in a biological system. Because it is not possible to cover the breadth of modern molecular biology in one semester, an understanding of these key concepts will provide a basis for extension of your knowledge to biological systems beyond the specific topics covered in this course. One of the major goals of the course therefore is for you to not only learn the fundamentals of the concepts but also to recognize how they can be applied in other contexts. Several key concepts include: All other units will rely heavily on the concepts and background introduced in this unit. You are encouraged to master this material before proceeding to the other units. Before you begin you may want to read the General Instructions about the course. This illustration highlights one of the goals of the course which is to expand your view of biology by bridging from classic simple illustrations to images generated from actual data. In addition, you will develop an understanding of the fundamental processes used in this imaging method.  This is a graded quiz. While you are taking the quiz you may "Save" your answers and make changes. When you are finished with the quiz you must click the "Submit" button for your answers to be graded. If you close the browser unsaved work will be lost and nothing will be graded. Remeber to "Submit" your quiz only after you have answered all questions. After exploring enzyme catalysis and kinetics, students will be able to: After exploring enzyme catalysis and kinetics, students will be able to: This simulation will demonstrate the effect of substrate on the reaction velocity. In the last section, the action of an enzyme was described as taking place in two parts. The first part involves the binding of substrate to enzyme in a reversible equilibrium as modeled in the way of ligand binding. The second part involves the conversion of the [ES] complex to product and the release of the product from the enzyme. This step represents the catalysis step in the enzyme catalyzed reaction. These parts are illustrated in the overall reaction below:  E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E The rate, or velocity (v), of the reaction is usually determined by measuring the amount of product (P) produced/unit time:  v=dP/dt The dependence of the reaction velocity on the kinetics of substrate binding, substrate release, and conversion to product is difficult to calculate under all conditions. However, if steady-state conditions are assumed then a very simple relationship can be found. [ES] ,do not change. Under steady-state conditions the following equation describes the relationship between the measured rate (v) of the reaction and the initial concentration of substrate (S) and the concentration of the enzyme. This equation is the Michaelis Menton-Briggs Haldane equation.  In this equation, kcat is the rate at which the [ES] complex decays to product. Vmax is kcat multiplied by the total amount of enzyme, Et. It is therefore the maximum velocity at which the reaction can occur under a fixed enzyme concentration. Km is also a constant that reflects the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate and is an approximation of the dissociation equilibrium constant. Both kcat and Km depend on the particular enzyme and substrate.  This equation can also be represented graphically by the hyperbolic curve illustrated below. This curve can be dissected into two parts: a region at the beginning where the velocity of the reaction increases proportionately with the amount of substrate present initially in the reaction, and the later region of the curve, at high substrate concentration, where the rate of the reaction is independent of the substrate concentration. This latter region defines saturation of the enzyme by substrate and the velocity approaches the value of Vmax. Enzyme catalysis is affected by many factors including substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, temperature, and the presence of inhibitors. The learn-by-doing on this page will explore the effect of substrate concentration. The following page will explore the effect of enzyme concentration, pH, temperature, and inhibitors on the velocity of the enzyme catalyzed reaction. In the last section, the action of an enzyme was described as taking place in two parts. The first part involves the binding of substrate to enzyme in a reversible equilibrium as modeled in the way of ligand binding. The second part involves the conversion of the [ES] complex to product and the release of the product from the enzyme. This step represents the catalysis step in the enzyme catalyzed reaction. These parts are illustrated in the overall reaction below: This simulation will demonstrate the effect of substrate on the reaction velocity.  E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E The rate, or velocity (v), of the reaction is usually determined by measuring the amount of product (P) produced/unit time:  v=dP/dt The dependence of the reaction velocity on the kinetics of substrate binding, substrate release, and conversion to product is difficult to calculate under all conditions. However, if steady-state conditions are assumed then a very simple relationship can be found. [ES] ,do not change. Under steady-state conditions the following equation describes the relationship between the measured rate (v) of the reaction and the initial concentration of substrate (S) and the concentration of the enzyme. This equation is the Michaelis Menton-Briggs Haldane equation.  In this equation, kcat is the rate at which the [ES] complex decays to product. Vmax is kcat multiplied by the total amount of enzyme, Et. It is therefore the maximum velocity at which the reaction can occur under a fixed enzyme concentration. Km is also a constant that reflects the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate and is an approximation of the dissociation equilibrium constant. Both kcat and Km depend on the particular enzyme and substrate.  This equation can also be represented graphically by the hyperbolic curve illustrated below. This curve can be dissected into two parts: a region at the beginning where the velocity of the reaction increases proportionately with the amount of substrate present initially in the reaction, and the later region of the curve, at high substrate concentration, where the rate of the reaction is independent of the substrate concentration. This latter region defines saturation of the enzyme by substrate and the velocity approaches the value of Vmax. Enzyme catalysis is affected by many factors including substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, temperature, and the presence of inhibitors. The learn-by-doing on this page will explore the effect of substrate concentration. The following page will explore the effect of enzyme concentration, pH, temperature, and inhibitors on the velocity of the enzyme catalyzed reaction. In the last section, the action of an enzyme was described as taking place in two parts. The first part involves the binding of substrate to enzyme in a reversible equilibrium as modeled in the way of ligand binding. The second part involves the conversion of the [ES] complex to product and the release of the product from the enzyme. This step represents the catalysis step in the enzyme catalyzed reaction. These parts are illustrated in the overall reaction below: This simulation will demonstrate the effect of substrate on the reaction velocity.  E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E The rate, or velocity (v), of the reaction is usually determined by measuring the amount of product (P) produced/unit time:  v=dP/dt The dependence of the reaction velocity on the kinetics of substrate binding, substrate release, and conversion to product is difficult to calculate under all conditions. However, if steady-state conditions are assumed then a very simple relationship can be found. [ES] ,do not change. Under steady-state conditions the following equation describes the relationship between the measured rate (v) of the reaction and the initial concentration of substrate (S) and the concentration of the enzyme. This equation is the Michaelis Menton-Briggs Haldane equation.  In this equation, kcat is the rate at which the [ES] complex decays to product. Vmax is kcat multiplied by the total amount of enzyme, Et. It is therefore the maximum velocity at which the reaction can occur under a fixed enzyme concentration. Km is also a constant that reflects the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate and is an approximation of the dissociation equilibrium constant. Both kcat and Km depend on the particular enzyme and substrate.  This equation can also be represented graphically by the hyperbolic curve illustrated below. This curve can be dissected into two parts: a region at the beginning where the velocity of the reaction increases proportionately with the amount of substrate present initially in the reaction, and the later region of the curve, at high substrate concentration, where the rate of the reaction is independent of the substrate concentration. This latter region defines saturation of the enzyme by substrate and the velocity approaches the value of Vmax. Enzyme catalysis is affected by many factors including substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, temperature, and the presence of inhibitors. The learn-by-doing on this page will explore the effect of substrate concentration. The following page will explore the effect of enzyme concentration, pH, temperature, and inhibitors on the velocity of the enzyme catalyzed reaction. A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Upon completion of this topic, students will be able to: In competitive inhibition the second molecule binds in the active site thus preventing the substrate from binding. The regulatory molecule competes with the substrate for the active site. This decreases the rate at which the enzyme can convert the substrate to product because the enzyme spends part of the time unable to bind the substrate. This can be seen in the graph below plotted as the dashed red line. The occupancy of the binding pocket is in equilibrium between the binding of the substrate or the inhibitor. As you can see from the curve the maximum velocity is unchanged, but the substrate concentration required to reach maximum velocity is increased. Non-competitive inhibition involves a second small molecule binding to the enzyme. In this case there are two binding sites: one for the substrate and a distinct one for the inhibitor. When the inhibitor binds to the enzyme, the substrate binding pocket changes such that the substrate is no longer able to bind. It may also be possible for both the substrate and inhibitor to bind the enzyme at the same time but the enzyme is unable to complete the conversion of substrate to product. Non-competitive inhibition results in a lower maximum velocity for the enzyme when the inhibitor is present as can be seen in the green curve. Inihibitors of this type are often referred to as allosteric inhibitors because they cause the shape (steric) of the enzyme to assume a different (allo) form. In some cases, this may be desirable, such as enzymes that degrade old, worn-out proteins. If you recall, the rate of reaction is proportional to the concentration of the enzyme-substrate complex ([ES]). One mechanism to control the rate of product formation is through temperature. Velocity of product formation increases linearly as the temperature increases until a critical temperature is reached as indicated in the following graph. Product formation ceases beyond the critical point due to two effects of temperature. One effect is to decrease the non-covalent interactions between enzyme and substrate. Thus if the enzyme cannot bind the substrate, no product is formed.  The second effect of temperature is to cause proteins to denature (unfold). loss of the ability to bind substrate, to recognize the substrate or to catalyze product formation). The pH of the environment a protein finds itself in can drastically affect the proteins function and denaturation state. Have you ever put lemon and cream into hot tea at the same time? The cream curdles because the low pH of the lemon juice causes the proteins to denature. pH also affects the ability of a protein to bind to its ligand. The graph below shows the activity of a typical protein as a function of pH. This protein is most active around neutral pH. However, typically these enzymes are only active at low pH such as is found in the stomach or in intracellular compartments such as the lysosome that is maintained at lower pH than the cytoplasm. Temperature and pH represent environmental means of regulating the velocity of an enzyme catalyzed reaction. However, in a typical organism (in vivo) the temperature and pH are usually regulated and therefore cannot be used to control enzyme activity. Consequently, the velocity of enzymatic reactions are usually regulated by molecular interaction of a second molecule with the enzyme. Upon completion of this topic, students will be able to: In competitive inhibition the second molecule binds in the active site thus preventing the substrate from binding. The regulatory molecule competes with the substrate for the active site. This decreases the rate at which the enzyme can convert the substrate to product because the enzyme spends part of the time unable to bind the substrate. This can be seen in the graph below plotted as the dashed red line. The occupancy of the binding pocket is in equilibrium between the binding of the substrate or the inhibitor. As you can see from the curve the maximum velocity is unchanged, but the substrate concentration required to reach maximum velocity is increased. Non-competitive inhibition involves a second small molecule binding to the enzyme. In this case there are two binding sites: one for the substrate and a distinct one for the inhibitor. When the inhibitor binds to the enzyme, the substrate binding pocket changes such that the substrate is no longer able to bind. It may also be possible for both the substrate and inhibitor to bind the enzyme at the same time but the enzyme is unable to complete the conversion of substrate to product. Non-competitive inhibition results in a lower maximum velocity for the enzyme when the inhibitor is present as can be seen in the green curve. Inihibitors of this type are often referred to as allosteric inhibitors because they cause the shape (steric) of the enzyme to assume a different (allo) form. In some cases, this may be desirable, such as enzymes that degrade old, worn-out proteins. If you recall, the rate of reaction is proportional to the concentration of the enzyme-substrate complex ([ES]). One mechanism to control the rate of product formation is through temperature. Velocity of product formation increases linearly as the temperature increases until a critical temperature is reached as indicated in the following graph. Product formation ceases beyond the critical point due to two effects of temperature. One effect is to decrease the non-covalent interactions between enzyme and substrate. Thus if the enzyme cannot bind the substrate, no product is formed.  The second effect of temperature is to cause proteins to denature (unfold). loss of the ability to bind substrate, to recognize the substrate or to catalyze product formation). The pH of the environment a protein finds itself in can drastically affect the proteins function and denaturation state. Have you ever put lemon and cream into hot tea at the same time? The cream curdles because the low pH of the lemon juice causes the proteins to denature. pH also affects the ability of a protein to bind to its ligand. The graph below shows the activity of a typical protein as a function of pH. This protein is most active around neutral pH. However, typically these enzymes are only active at low pH such as is found in the stomach or in intracellular compartments such as the lysosome that is maintained at lower pH than the cytoplasm. Temperature and pH represent environmental means of regulating the velocity of an enzyme catalyzed reaction. However, in a typical organism (in vivo) the temperature and pH are usually regulated and therefore cannot be used to control enzyme activity. Consequently, the velocity of enzymatic reactions are usually regulated by molecular interaction of a second molecule with the enzyme.  Cells operate within the laws of chemistry and physics, and utilize only chemical reactions that occur naturally. Many of these reactions are extremely slow, requiring years to eons to complete. This paper will take decades to degrade in the environment and mammalian systems lack the enzyme that is specific to degrade cellulose, however, a bacteria found in the stomach of cows and other ruminants have the ability to digest cellulose and provide glucose to the cow. For a cow to survive it cannot wait decades to digest a meal of hay.  Enzymes bind to substrates in a manner similar to the way myoglobin binds oxygen or the estradiol binds to the estrogen receptor, but enzymes can go one step further. In this case the ligand is specifically referred to as the substrate (the molecule that the enzyme will convert to product) and it binds to a specific binding region of the enzyme referred to as the active site. Once bound, the ligand, or substrate, can either simply reversibly come off the enzyme, or it can be converted into a new compound or product. The general form of the reaction is: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E Where E = enzyme, S = substrate, ES = the enzyme•substrate complex, and P = product. The square brackets around the ES complex indicate that the complex is inferred, because it is very unstable and generally not directly measurable. Enzymes are not consumed in the process, but are recycled for further catalysis.  The number of the contacts between a protein and its ligand and the environment of the binding pocket determine how tightly the ligand binds to the protein. There is intensive research in this area and forms the basis for many computational studies used in drug discovery laboratories. The tightness of the binding is a measurable parameter and describes the affinity of a ligand for a protein.  In the previous section the binding of oxygen to myoglobin was defined by the equation: In the previous analysis of weak electrolytes we wrote the dissociation of a weak acid as the taking apart of a molecule that was bound by a weak covalent bond. While there are no covalent bonds being formed during the association of oxygen and myoglobin, there is the same type of equilibrium established between the association of myoglobin and the dissociation of the weak acid. Thus, where we used a Kd (K) as a constant that defined the strength of the weak electrolyte's ability to retain its proton, it is also possible to define the affinity of the ligand for the protein by a constant referred to as the equilibrium constant, Keq. For the association reaction as it is written above, the equilibrium constant would be expressed as follows:  Keq = [ MO ] [ M ] * [ O ]  In general the affinity of the ligand will increase proportionately as the number of specific interactions between the ligand and the protein increase. Other protein ligand binding interactions are based on fewer contacts, as in the case of oxygen binding to myoglobin and thus the affinity is lower. By the end of this module, students will be able to:  As discussed previously, proteins bind and release their ligands. In this section we will explore the reversible binding and the equilibrium state. Myoglobin is a single polypeptide chain protein that binds oxygen to create an oxygen buffer in muscle cells. The reversibly binding of oxygen to myoglobin can be expressed as follows: By reversibly binding oxygen, myoglobin acts as an oxygen buffer. When free oxygen is high myoglobin binds oxygen and the equilibrium shifts to the right. If the oxygen concentration falls the equilibrium shifts to the left to free oxygen and protein. The change in equilibrium is only possible because protein ligand binding is reversible. Oxygen supply is always changing depending on activity level.  In the Learn By Doing below, you will explore the equilibrium between free protein, ligand, and the complex, and how ligand concentration affects the equilibrium.  As discussed previously, proteins bind and release their ligands. In this section we will explore the reversible binding and the equilibrium state. Myoglobin is a single polypeptide chain protein that binds oxygen to create an oxygen buffer in muscle cells. The reversibly binding of oxygen to myoglobin can be expressed as follows: By reversibly binding oxygen, myoglobin acts as an oxygen buffer. When free oxygen is high myoglobin binds oxygen and the equilibrium shifts to the right. If the oxygen concentration falls the equilibrium shifts to the left to free oxygen and protein. The change in equilibrium is only possible because protein ligand binding is reversible. Oxygen supply is always changing depending on activity level.  In the Learn By Doing below, you will explore the equilibrium between free protein, ligand, and the complex, and how ligand concentration affects the equilibrium.  As discussed previously, proteins bind and release their ligands. In this section we will explore the reversible binding and the equilibrium state. Myoglobin is a single polypeptide chain protein that binds oxygen to create an oxygen buffer in muscle cells. The reversibly binding of oxygen to myoglobin can be expressed as follows: By reversibly binding oxygen, myoglobin acts as an oxygen buffer. When free oxygen is high myoglobin binds oxygen and the equilibrium shifts to the right. If the oxygen concentration falls the equilibrium shifts to the left to free oxygen and protein. The change in equilibrium is only possible because protein ligand binding is reversible. Oxygen supply is always changing depending on activity level.  In the Learn By Doing below, you will explore the equilibrium between free protein, ligand, and the complex, and how ligand concentration affects the equilibrium.  Click on link to open page. Start Simulator Other proteins act as small molecule buffers. Since the binding is non-covalent, the protein ligand binding is reversible, and the bound ligand can dissociate. This is represented in the following reaction diagram: M + L <=> [ML] The protein is represented as M (macromolecule) and the ligand as L. The double half-arrow is used to illustrate that M and L can associate and, once bound, can dissociate. The bound state is represented as ML and is enclosed in brackets to indicate that the complex is unstable.  The reversible binding of the protein ligand complex is critical. If oxygen were unable to dissociate from hemoglobin, the tissues would be starved of oxygen. If binding were permanent, there would be no way to terminate the signal.  In this module, you will explore the equilibrium forces driving protein ligand binding using the oxygen buffering protein myoglobin. Macromolecule (protein) + Ligand <=> [Macromolecule Ligand] M + L <=> [ML] The bound complex is surrounded by brackets, [ ], to indicate that the ligand is physically associated with the macromolecule.  In the following pages you will explore reversible binding and how we can determine the strength of the interaction between a protein and its ligand by experimental measurements. If the small molecule binds to a protein, but undergoes no further changes, then it is referred to as a ligand. If the molecule binds to the protein, and then is changed by a protein-catalyzed chemical reaction, the small molecule is referred to as a substrate, the resultant altered compound is the product, and the protein becomes an enzyme. They may be responsible for buffering the ligand concentration and the transport of ligands. It is also possible that binding the ligand causes the functionality of the protein to change from active to inactive, or from inactive to active. Estrogen is the "key" that turns the estrogen receptor "on." As you can see it is mostly α-helices. 17-β-estradiol (an estrogen), the red space-filling balls, fits in a properly sized pocket on each of the proteins in the dimer. As you can see the estrogen binding pocket is only a small part of the total protein size. The binding of ligands and substrates relies primarily on the characteristics of the non-covalent bonds and the functional groups associated with both the protein and the small molecule. The interactions that can be used are:  van der Waals interactions: the protein and its ligand are complementary in shape, optimizing the contact between the two surfaces. You will explore that interactions that stabilize bound estrogen to the estrogen receptor in the following activity: Because protein and ligand interactions are non-covalent in nature it is possible for the ligand to dissociate from the protein. This reversible binding is critical and is generally represented as: One mechanism to control product formation rate is through temperature. Velocity of product formation increases as temperature increases until a critical temperature is reached. This is shown in the graph below of product formation as a function of temperature. Product formation ceases beyond the critical point due to two effects of temperature. As temperature increases this small force is weak compared to the increase in molecular motion. Thus if the enzyme cannot bind the substrate, no product is formed.  The second effect of temperature is to cause proteins to denature. Upon completing this module, students will be able to:  Biological systems use only a small subset of the elements (approximately 10 %) found in the periodic table. The chemical reactions that take place in cells represent only a small subset of all possible reactions. Before we begin an in-depth study of other aspects of molecular and cellular biology, one needs to understand the restrictions the cellular environment places on the possible chemical reactions and the resulting structures.  In the next few pages, we discuss each of the 10 learning objectives described in the objective link (check mark icon at the top and bottom of each page). Each subsequent page will list the specific objectives relevant to that page. Many of the simulations and demonstrations, used in this module, are referenced in the Glossary Module. Electronegativity increases as one moves from left to right, across the periodic chart. The the bonding partner in the covalent bond becomes partially positively charged (as indicated by δ+ ). Oxygen has six valence electrons; two sets of paired electrons and two sets of single bonding electrons. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. There are trace amounts of many other elements in cells most of which exist as ions. These include sodium (Na+), chlorine (Cl-), fluorine (F-), iron (Fe++), magnesium (Mg++), cobalt (Co++), and manganese (Mn++). By losing an electron, sodium becomes a positively charged cation and by gaining an electron, chlorine becomes a negatively charged anion. The affinity of Na+ for Cl- is a non-covalent, ionic bond (the attraction of opposite charges). Some elements are found in relatively small amounts and are called “trace elements.” The examples include sodium (Na), potassium (K), chlorine (Cl), manganese (Mn), Zinc (Zn). Each proton has a positive charge (+1), while neutrons are neutral (they carry no charge). Each electron has a negative charge (-1) and zero mass. radioactive isotope of iodine is used for cancer treatment). The masses can be found in the upper right hand corner of the box for each element in the periodic table. C, N and O). The valence shells for each of the biologically relevant elements are highlighted in the periodic table below. The relationship between the number of unpaired electrons in the valence shell and the number of possible covalent bonds an element can form is given in the Atomic Properties TABLE above. This will be discussed later in the section on bonding. Different representations of methane, ammonia, and albuterol are shown in the table below. 3D-Structural images are seen in the Jmol images at the right of each row. You can manipulate the 3D-structures by placing the cursor in the window and moving the mouse. You should understand the relationship between the 2D-structural representation and the 3D-structural representation. In ammonia, the three attached hydrogens form the base of a tetrahydron. Because the enantiomers have identical functional groups attached to the chiral center they have identical physical and chemical properties - except for the direction they rotate plane polarized light. Experimentally, the enantiomers are distinguished by the direction of rotation of plane polarized light. The enantiomer that rotates light to the right is designated as D (dextro) form of the compound. The other enantiomer will rotate light in the opposite direction, and is designated as the L (levulo) form of the compound. Its mirror image shown on the right, rotates polarized light in the opposite direction, and is therefore the L form. The chemical world has been narrowed by the selective use of specific enantiomers (in this case only D-glyceraldehyde) by biological systems. Instructions: Chloro-fluoro methane and its mirror image are shown below. Please answer the question using these two structures. One form of the molecule is shown on the left and it's mirror image is on the right. Use these two structures to answer the question on the right. A static image of L-glyceraldehyde is shown on the left. No electron sharing or transfer occurs. In an aqueous solution, these ions are completely dissociated and are defined as strong electrolytes. The sphere of hydration must be broken in order for binding to take place with a specific binding partner. The force of attraction between two oppositely charged ions is inversely proportional to the dielectric constant. This is physically explained by the ability of polar solvents to form ordered hydration layers around ions. As the mixture settles, the oil collects in larger and larger drops until it only exists as a layer, or phase, above the vinegar. A similar effect occurs in biological systems. The nature of the covalent bond is determined by the number of electrons shared and the nature of the two elements attached. You may recall that processes that increase the disorder of a system are more favorable. Rather, the non-polar parts are forced together into a non-polar aggregate, leaving the polar part of the molecule to interact with the aqueous phase. An important force in biochemistry is due to van der Waals interactions. This interaction occurs between any two surfaces that are in contact. The force is actually an electrostatic one that occurs as a result of a momentary fluctuation in the charge on one surface.. This charge causes the other surface to momentarily assume the opposite charge, leading to a net attractive force. The strength of van der Waals forces depend on the contact surface area; the larger the area the larger the interaction. At the macroscopic level van der Waals forces can become quite large.  It should be noted here that throughout the presentation of this course approximations will be used for certain values so that estimations can be made as we move to more complex systems. It is to be acknowledged that very precise values for each of the measurements are not available. ). Thus, NaCl in an aqueous solution is energetically more favored than NaCl as the ionically bonded molecule due to the resulting hydrated state. Answering questions like the one below is good practice for answering the kinds of questions that may appear on exams. Your answers may also shape discussions in class. You can take this quiz only once. Aromatic compounds have unique geometrical properties and absorb ultraviolet light . The shape of a molecule can have a large effect on its biological activity, often small changes in the shape of a molecule will make it biologically inactive. In ammonia, the three attached hydrogens form the base of a tetrahydron. Because the enantiomers have identical functional groups attached to the chiral center they have identical physical and chemical properties - except for the direction they rotate plane polarized light. Experimentally, the enantiomers are distinguished by the direction of rotation of plane polarized light. The enantiomer that rotates light to the right is designated as D (dextro) form of the compound. The other enantiomer will rotate light in the opposite direction, and is designated as the L (levulo) form of the compound. Its mirror image shown on the right, rotates polarized light in the opposite direction, and is therefore the L form. The chemical world has been narrowed by the selective use of specific enantiomers (in this case only D-glyceraldehyde) by biological systems. Instructions: Chloro-fluoro methane and its mirror image are shown below. Please answer the question using these two structures. One form of the molecule is shown on the left and it's mirror image is on the right. Use these two structures to answer the question on the right. A static image of L-glyceraldehyde is shown on the left. No electron sharing or transfer occurs. In an aqueous solution, these ions are completely dissociated and are defined as strong electrolytes. The sphere of hydration must be broken in order for binding to take place with a specific binding partner. The force of attraction between two oppositely charged ions is inversely proportional to the dielectric constant. This is physically explained by the ability of polar solvents to form ordered hydration layers around ions. As the mixture settles, the oil collects in larger and larger drops until it only exists as a layer, or phase, above the vinegar. A similar effect occurs in biological systems. The nature of the covalent bond is determined by the number of electrons shared and the nature of the two elements attached. You may recall that processes that increase the disorder of a system are more favorable. Rather, the non-polar parts are forced together into a non-polar aggregate, leaving the polar part of the molecule to interact with the aqueous phase. An important force in biochemistry is due to van der Waals interactions. This interaction occurs between any two surfaces that are in contact. The force is actually an electrostatic one that occurs as a result of a momentary fluctuation in the charge on one surface.. This charge causes the other surface to momentarily assume the opposite charge, leading to a net attractive force. The strength of van der Waals forces depend on the contact surface area; the larger the area the larger the interaction. At the macroscopic level van der Waals forces can become quite large.  It should be noted here that throughout the presentation of this course approximations will be used for certain values so that estimations can be made as we move to more complex systems. It is to be acknowledged that very precise values for each of the measurements are not available. ). Thus, NaCl in an aqueous solution is energetically more favored than NaCl as the ionically bonded molecule due to the resulting hydrated state. Aromatic compounds have unique geometrical properties and absorb ultraviolet light . The shape of a molecule can have a large effect on its biological activity, often small changes in the shape of a molecule will make it biologically inactive.  Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems.  The functional groups fall into three broad categories: non-polar, polar neutral, and polar charged. In the activity below, the radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property and highlight the functional groups that exhibit the selected property. The [?] buttons display the definition of each of the properties. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. The following is a video in which Dr. Bill Brown explains the various functional groups. This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups. Using the My Response link below, record two questions you have about this lesson. Due by by 9 a.m. of the day the lesson will be discussed. These questions will be used to shape the classroom discussion. Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. The functional groups fall into three broad categories: non-polar, polar neutral, and polar charged. In the activity below, the radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property and highlight the functional groups that exhibit the selected property. The [?] buttons display the definition of each of the properties. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups.  Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems.  The functional groups fall into three broad categories: non-polar, polar neutral, and polar charged.  The Learn By Doing link below will open the Functional Groups Glossary. We will use this Glossary extensively. It contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Click on "Learn By Doing," below, to enter the tutorial. The functional groups are listed.  This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups.  Using the My Response button below, record two questions you have about this lesson. Due by by 9 a.m. of the day the lesson will be discussed. These questions will be used to shape the classroom discussion. Try this set of questions to test your knowledge. As the water molecules associate with each other they have a defined structure dictated by the tetrahydral geometry script('set windowcentered off;center atomno=1;zoomto 1.0 250;set windowcentered on;select 1,2,41,15,28;define tetra selected;select (not tetra);define nt selected;select nt and oxygen;color [250,20,20];select nt and hydrogen;color [250,250,250];select nt;color translucent 0.1;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [245,40,40];select nt and hydrogen;color [245,245,245];select nt;color translucent 0.2;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [240,60,60];select nt and hydrogen;color [240,240,240];select nt;color translucent 0.3;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [235,80,80];select nt and hydrogen;color [235,235,235];select nt;color translucent 0.4;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [230,100,100];select nt and hydrogen;color [230,230,230];select nt;color translucent 0.5;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [225,120,120];select nt and hydrogen;color [225,225,225];select nt;color translucent 0.6;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [220,140,140];select nt and hydrogen;color [220,220,220];select nt;color translucent 0.7;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [215,160,160];select nt and hydrogen;color [215,215,215];select nt;color translucent 0.8;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [210,180,180];select nt and hydrogen;color [210,210,210];select nt;color translucent 0.9;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [205,200,200];select nt and hydrogen;color [205,205,205];select nt;color translucent 1.0;draw line1 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=79);color $line1 yellow;draw line2 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=34);color $line2 yellow;draw line3 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=58);color $line3 yellow;draw line4 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=4);color $line4 yellow;moveto 1.0 706 704 77 31 250;measure (atomno=79)(atomno=1)(atomno=34);font measure 30 SERIF bold') of the electrons around the oxygen atom as seen in the Jmol image below. Answering questions like the one above is good practice for answering the kinds of questions that may appear on the exams. Your answers may also shape discussions in class.  Placing acetic acid in pure water establishes an equilibrium between the charged and neutral forms according to the unique dissociation constant of the acid. This occurs because acetic acid is the only proton donor in the solution. Answer the question before continuing. Because the equilibrium constant Ka does not change, the presence of additional protons from another source must shift the ratio of acetate ions to acetic acid, and a new equilibrium point would be reached.  For the following acid dissociation: HA A- + H+ with an equilibrium constant of: K a = [ A ] [ H + ] [ HA ] How will the equilibrium position change when the proton concentration changes? If protons are added [A-] must decrease and [HA] increase in order for Ka to remain the same. Likewise if protons are removed by adding a strong base then [A-] must increase, and [HA] decrease to keep Ka constant. The ratio of [A-] to [HA] changes depending on the total [H+] of the solution.  To quantify how the equilibrium point is affected by pH, it is instructive to rearrange the equilibrium equation to generate the Hendersson-Hasselbach equation. First we start with the general equilibrium equation for Ka: K = [ A - ] [ H + ] [ HA ] and then take the -log of both sides of the equation. log ( K ) = log ( [ A - ] [ HA ] ) log ( [ H + ] ) You may recognize that -log(Ka) is pKa and the -log([H+]) is pH. By substituting these into the equation we have the Hendersson-Hasselbach equation. pH = pKa log ( [ A - ] [ HA ] ) This equation can be used to calculate the ratio of [A-]/[HA] for any weak acid, provided the pKa of the acid and the pH of the solution are known. The fraction of a group that is protonated: [HA]/{[HA]+[A-]} can be calculated at any pH using the Hendersson-Hasselbach equation. Such a plot is shown below for acetic acid. Note that: A buffer solution will resist changes in pH as a strong acid or base is added to the solution. The following shows the pH of a solution of a weak acid as a strong base, e.g. hydroxide, is added or titrated into the solution. Understanding the reverse titration, the addition of a strong acid to a solution of conjugate base follows the same logic. At high pH, the added protons do not protonate the weak acid since the pH is much higher than the pKa. In the buffer region of pH = pKa+/-1, the protons that are added to the solution will not decrease the pH, instead they will convert some of the conjugate base, A-, to the acid form, HA. At the lower edge of the buffer region the weak acid is almost fully protonated (pH=pKa-1), consequently it cannot absorb any additional protons. The principal buffer that is used in biological systems is the carbonic acid, a weak acid with an effective pKa of 6.4, ideally suited to act as a buffer when the pH ~ 7.0  Placing acetic acid in pure water establishes an equilibrium between the charged and neutral forms according to the unique dissociation constant of the acid. This occurs because acetic acid is the only proton donor in the solution. Answer the question before continuing. Because the equilibrium constant Ka does not change, the presence of additional protons from another source must shift the ratio of acetate ions to acetic acid, and a new equilibrium point would be reached.  For the following acid dissociation: HA A- + H+ with an equilibrium constant of: K a = [ A ] [ H + ] [ HA ] How will the equilibrium position change when the proton concentration changes? If protons are added [A-] must decrease and [HA] increase in order for Ka to remain the same. Likewise if protons are removed by adding a strong base then [A-] must increase, and [HA] decrease to keep Ka constant. The ratio of [A-] to [HA] changes depending on the total [H+] of the solution.  To quantify how the equilibrium point is affected by pH, it is instructive to rearrange the equilibrium equation to generate the Hendersson-Hasselbach equation. First we start with the general equilibrium equation for Ka: K = [ A - ] [ H + ] [ HA ] and then take the -log of both sides of the equation. log ( K ) = log ( [ A - ] [ HA ] ) log ( [ H + ] ) You may recognize that -log(Ka) is pKa and the -log([H+]) is pH. By substituting these into the equation we have the Hendersson-Hasselbach equation. pH = pKa log ( [ A - ] [ HA ] ) This equation can be used to calculate the ratio of [A-]/[HA] for any weak acid, provided the pKa of the acid and the pH of the solution are known. The fraction of a group that is protonated: [HA]/{[HA]+[A-]} can be calculated at any pH using the Hendersson-Hasselbach equation. Such a plot is shown below for acetic acid. Note that: A buffer solution will resist changes in pH as a strong acid or base is added to the solution. The following shows the pH of a solution of a weak acid as a strong base, e.g. hydroxide, is added or titrated into the solution. Understanding the reverse titration, the addition of a strong acid to a solution of conjugate base follows the same logic. At high pH, the added protons do not protonate the weak acid since the pH is much higher than the pKa. In the buffer region of pH = pKa+/-1, the protons that are added to the solution will not decrease the pH, instead they will convert some of the conjugate base, A-, to the acid form, HA. At the lower edge of the buffer region the weak acid is almost fully protonated (pH=pKa-1), consequently it cannot absorb any additional protons. The principal buffer that is used in biological systems is the carbonic acid, a weak acid with an effective pKa of 6.4, ideally suited to act as a buffer when the pH ~ 7.0 Specifically you learned there were only three types of functional groups: non-polar, polar neutral, and polar charged. Within these types there are eight that are particularly relevant to biological systems out of the hundreds of known organic functional groups. In this module you will explore the properties of weak acids and bases including their dissociation equilibrium and their ability to act as pH buffers. In the final module of this unit you will see these concepts in action in protein ligand binding.  In the tutorial you learned that the equilibrium constant Ka is the same for an acid regardless of the starting concentration. After an initial rapid dissociation of the acid, an equilibrium was reached. The balance of products and reactants is defined by Ka. The equilibrium constant, Ka, is a property of the molecule and its environment. The chemical nature of the molecule has the largest effect on Ka. Secondary to this, the environment of the group can shift the Ka. Therefore, every acidic group has its own Ka value. The Ka is a small number, usually much less than 1, and can vary by several orders of magnitude from compound to compound. Consequently, the negative log of the Ka is used to represent acidity constants: pKa = -log(Ka) A change in the pKa from 5 to a pKa 4 is the change by a factor of 10 in the Ka. The table below will help you see the relationship between Ka and pKa. The pKa is a convenient scale for comparing the dissociation constants of weak acids because the pKa scale is similar to the pH scale. The relationship between the two will be explained in the next few pages. Remember that the pKa is a property of the acidic group while pH is a property of the solution.  Just as the pH scale indicates the relative proton concentration of various solutions, the pKa indicates the relative strengths of the different acids. If a reaction has a large equilibrium constant, then the concentration of the products will be higher than the reactants. In the case of the acidity constant, a larger Ka indicates a more completely dissociated acid, or a stronger acid. Since the pKa = - log (Ka), strong acids will have small pKa values. For this course you do not need to memorize the pKa values for all of the different groups. The values will always be given to you, or you can find them in the Functional Groups Glossary. However, it is useful to remember the following pKa values:  In the tutorial you learned that the equilibrium constant Ka is the same for an acid regardless of the starting concentration. After an initial rapid dissociation of the acid, an equilibrium was reached. The balance of products and reactants is defined by Ka. The equilibrium constant, Ka, is a property of the molecule and its environment. The chemical nature of the molecule has the largest effect on Ka. Secondary to this, the environment of the group can shift the Ka. Therefore, every acidic group has its own Ka value. The Ka is a small number, usually much less than 1, and can vary by several orders of magnitude from compound to compound. Consequently, the negative log of the Ka is used to represent acidity constants: pKa = -log(Ka) A change in the pKa from 5 to a pKa 4 is the change by a factor of 10 in the Ka. The table below will help you see the relationship between Ka and pKa. The pKa is a convenient scale for comparing the dissociation constants of weak acids because the pKa scale is similar to the pH scale. The relationship between the two will be explained in the next few pages. Remember that the pKa is a property of the acidic group while pH is a property of the solution.  Just as the pH scale indicates the relative proton concentration of various solutions, the pKa indicates the relative strengths of the different acids. If a reaction has a large equilibrium constant, then the concentration of the products will be higher than the reactants. In the case of the acidity constant, a larger Ka indicates a more completely dissociated acid, or a stronger acid. Since the pKa = - log (Ka), strong acids will have small pKa values. For this course you do not need to memorize the pKa values for all of the different groups. The values will always be given to you, or you can find them in the Functional Groups Glossary. However, it is useful to remember the following pKa values:  First we start with the general equation for K: K=[A-][H+][HA] Next take the log of both sides. This is similar to calculating the pKa. log(K)=log([A-][H+][HA]) Using the rules of logs we can separate the right side of the equation into two terms. log(K)=log([A-][HA])+log([H-]) Next we multiply everything by -1. Remember these numbers are usually much smaller than one and log of these terms would be negative. By multiplying by -1 we make the numbers positive. log(K)=log([A-][HA])log([H-]) Now two terms should be familiar: pKa = -log(K) and pH = -log([H+]). So we substitute those in. pKa=log([A-][HA])+pH Finally we re-arrange to arrive at the familiar form of the Hendersson-Hasselbach equation. pH=pKalog([A-][HA])  [1] K = [CH3COO-]*[H+]/[ CH3COOH] Looking at both the chemical equilibrium given above and the equation for the equilibrium constant (K), the concentration of the acid and conjugate base will be influenced by the concentration of protons (the pH of the environment in which the reaction is placed). Using some simple mathematical substitutions, the equilibrium constant equation becomes the Hendersson-Hasselbach equation that describes the relationship between the amount of dissociation and the pH of the solution: [2] log K = log ([CH3COO-]/[ CH3COOH]) + log[H+] Rearranging we get: [3] -log[H+] = log ([Ch3COO-]/[ CH3COOH]) - log K Substituting pH for -log[H+] and pKa for - log K we get, [4] pH = log[CH3COO-]/CH3COOH] + pKa (Hendersson-Hasselbach equation) The ultimate net charge on the functional group (the carboxyl group in this case) is dependent upon whether the pH is above below or equal to the pKa. When the pH is much lower than the pKa (one pH unit below) the net charge is actually –0.1. For practical estimation purposes, we will use the general rule that if the pH is one pH unit below the pKa then the functional group will be fully protonated and thus in this case the net charge will be rounded to 0. At one pH unit above the molecule the functional group, in this case the carboxyl group, would have an actual net charge of –0.9 because the proton will be lost from the carboxyl group. Again for estimation purposes, we will round all values one pH above the pKa of a carboxyl to –1.  Weak electrolytes buffer solutions against large changes in pH over a range of pKa + 1 pH unit or pKa - 1 pH unit. They do this by shifting the equilibrium of the charged to uncharged ratio. The pKa of a molecule is experimentally determined by titration. Strong base is added in small increments to a solution of a weak acid and the change in pH is recorded. In the tutorial you will explore how the pH changes and the relationship of pKa to pH. You will also explore the equilibrium established by a weak base.  H2O <=> H+ + OH- At low pH, the concentrations of protons is high and the solution is acidic, and, at high pH, the concentrations of protons is low and the solution is basic, due to an abundance of hydronium ions, OH -. For our reference we will define an acid as a proton donor and a base as a proton acceptor. pH of various compounds.On the left are biological compounds and on the right are some foods and cleaning products.  Hydrochloric Acid, like sodium chloride, is a strong electrolyte that completely dissociates in aqueous solution into charged ions. It is also a strong acid because when it completely dissociates, it is also completely donating all of its protons. The dissociation can be seen as an acid dissociating into a proton and the conjugate base: In general: HA (acid) <=> A- (conjugate base) + H+ (proton)  Specifically for Acetic acid:  CH3COOH <=> CH3COO- (conjugate base) + H+ (proton) The ratio of dissociated parts to parent acid is expressed as: Upon completing this module, students will be able to: The pH is the -log of the proton concentration: pH = - log [H+]. The minus sign changes the negative numbers that would be obtained from log[H+] to positive ones. Since the pH scale is an inverse scale the concentration of protons is high at low pH and low at high pH. A solution is said to be acidic if the pH is less than seven, and basic if the pH is above 7. A solution is neutral if its pH is equal to 7.0. The image below shows the pH of a number of common fluids. For our studies, the Bronsted definition of an acid will be used, we will define an acid as a proton donor and a base as a proton acceptor. Hydrochloric acid, like sodium chloride, is a strong electrolyte because it completely dissociates in aqueous solution into charged ions. Hydrochloric acid is also a strong acid because when it completely dissociates it also completely donates all of its protons. Thus dissociation can be seen as an acid (HA) in equilibrium with a proton (H+) and the corresponding conjugate base (A-). In general:HA A- + H+ Specifically for Acetic acid: CH3COOH CH3COO- + H+ Upon completing this module, students will be able to: The pH is the -log of the proton concentration: pH = - log [H+]. The minus sign changes the negative numbers that would be obtained from log[H+] to positive ones. Since the pH scale is an inverse scale the concentration of protons is high at low pH and low at high pH. A solution is said to be acidic if the pH is less than seven, and basic if the pH is above 7. A solution is neutral if its pH is equal to 7.0. The image below shows the pH of a number of common fluids. For our studies, the Bronsted definition of an acid will be used, we will define an acid as a proton donor and a base as a proton acceptor. Hydrochloric acid, like sodium chloride, is a strong electrolyte because it completely dissociates in aqueous solution into charged ions. Hydrochloric acid is also a strong acid because when it completely dissociates it also completely donates all of its protons. Thus dissociation can be seen as an acid (HA) in equilibrium with a proton (H+) and the corresponding conjugate base (A-). In general:HA A- + H+ Specifically for Acetic acid: CH3COOH CH3COO- + H+  In the previous tutorial you calculated the K and pKa of acetic acid and found K ≈ 0.0001 and pKa ≈ 4. Reference these equations if you need to:  K = [ A - ] * [ H + ] [ HA ]  pKa = - log ( K ) = log ( [ HA ] [ A - ] * [ H + ] ) After exploring the relationship between acid strength and dissociation, students will be able to: CH3COOH CH3COO- + H+ The extent to which the acid will dissociate in pure water is expressed as Ka, the equilibrium constant for dissociation of an acid: K a = [ C H 3 COO ] [ H ] [ C H 3 COOH ] The square brackets [ ] around the terms indicate concentration and is usually expressed in molar concentration (moles/Liter). (C(H2O))n The most common carbohydrate in nature is glucose, which has the general formula (C(H2O))6 or C6H12O6. power movement or build new macromolecules). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism section of the course. In this case, the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose, but the end result is the formation of a matrix. Just as we identified a peptido-glycan as a conjunction (conjugation) of a peptide with a polysaccharide, other complex carbohydrates are conjugated to other molecules to form glycoproteins (carbohydrates linked to proteins) and glycolipids (carbohydrates linked to lipids). Because a very large number of structures can be made from a few monosaccharides (simple carbohydrates), a very large number of different structures can be made from a few simple carbohydrates, as will be seen later. (C(H2O))n The most common carbohydrate in nature is glucose, which has the general formula (C(H2O))6 or C6H12O6. power movement or build new macromolecules). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism section of the course. In this case, the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose, but the end result is the formation of a matrix. Just as we identified a peptido-glycan as a conjunction (conjugation) of a peptide with a polysaccharide, other complex carbohydrates are conjugated to other molecules to form glycoproteins (carbohydrates linked to proteins) and glycolipids (carbohydrates linked to lipids). Because a very large number of structures can be made from a few monosaccharides (simple carbohydrates), a very large number of different structures can be made from a few simple carbohydrates, as will be seen later. We have a low stakes quiz. Upon examination of glycosidic bond formation, students will be able to: Here we will explore the process by which simple carbohydrates are linked together using a condensation reaction.  As described previously the aldehyde form of aldoses and ketone form of ketoses spontaneously form five and six member ring structures called furanoses and pyranoses respectively. This is illustrated below. Furthermore, this ring closure is freely reversible, which allows the alpha form of the ring to be in equilibrium with the beta form. The equation for the formation of the glycosidic bond is given below. This type of reaction is referred to as a condensation reaction. These combined forward and reverse reactions (condensation and hydrolysis) form the basis for the creation of most of the covalent assemblies in biological systems.  While all linkages between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and every hydroxyl of a second carbohydrate are possible, it is important to understand, that in biological systems, very little is left to chance, and in fact, every reaction that takes place in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme. Just as we have stated that bioselectivity dictates that D carbohydrates are used by biological systems, the formation of glycosidic bonds is catalyzed by specific enzymes that direct the formation of specific glycosidic bonds between the anomeric carbon of one defined carbohydrate and a specific hydroxyl function of a defined second carbohydrate. Upon completing this exploration of monosaccharides, students will be able to: What must remain constant in the representation of these structures?  One of these structures is very important to the biological system: D-ribose. An expansive tree on structures can be built starting with the simplest aldose. While all of these structures are possible starting with D-glyceraldehyde, the biological system only utilizes a few of these structures. Of the hexoses, the predominant compound is D-glucose, one of the most prevalent sugars in biology. It is useful to provide shorthand notations and alternative ways of representing the carbohydrates. Below are equivalent alternative representations of the glucose and ribose. The form on the right is typically found in books and manuscripts. The five (ribose) and six (glucose) membered aldoses have been depicted in their linear form. However, these compounds will spontaneously form 5 member or 6 member ring structures if possible. These are more stable forms of the compounds. As previously mentioned, compounds will spontaneously form 5 or 6 member rings if possible. For aldoses this is possible because of the reactive character of the aldehyde group.  The drawing below shows not only the possible structures resulting from the ring closure but also shows the more traditional representation of these structures in their ring configuration. The central image shows how the two furanose forms of ribose are generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. In fact, in biological systems it is quite easy to convert between the two forms using catalysts. The unique functional group associated with that category defines each of the categories.  The hexoses are capable of forming a six member pyranose ring by the same mechanism. Ring formation in glucose is shown in the diagram below. As with ribose, a new chiral center is formed, giving two possible forms of glucose, alpha and beta. The central image shows how the two pyranose forms of glucose that can be generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. Galactose is one of the monosaccharides that make up lactose, or milk sugar. There are enzyme catalysts capable of inter-converting galactose to glucose by inverting the chiral center. In the case of a four carbon ketose, which is formed by the addition of a C(H2O) group below the ketone group in dihydroxyacetone phosphate, the new chiral center can be either D or L. In general, only the D structures of the ketoses are used by biological systems due to bioselectivity.  While it is clear that many ketose structures are possible, only a few are used in biological systems and the focus for this course will be on the hexose D-fructose. This category of carbohydrates is, thus, referred to as aldoses. Carbohydrates containing this ketone group are referred to as ketoses. In this case the selectivity is based on structural discrimination and will apply to all of the carbohydrates.  You should convince yourself that it is not possible to superimpose the bottom two structures. They are in fact different structures. In this case the enzymes can discriminate between D and L carbohydrates. Thus as a general rule, all carbohydrates in biological systems are D. In this module, we will explore two of these classes: carbohydrates and proteins. Polysaccharides are the carbohydrates joined through glycosidic bonds in sometimes quite complex branched structures. In this module, we will explore two of these classes: carbohydrates and proteins. Polysaccharides are the carbohydrates joined through glycosidic bonds in sometimes quite complex branched structures. Upon completing this module, students will be able to: In this module, we will explore two of these classes: carbohydrates and proteins. Polysaccharides are the carbohydrates joined through glycosidic bonds in sometimes quite complex branched structures. After completing this segment to investigate carbohydrates further, students will be able to:  Polysaccharides  Homopolysaccharides: Three major homopolymers found in nature are starch, glycogen and cellulose. Amylose is a linear polymer of glucose subunits linked end-to-end by alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bonds. For glycogen, there is no linear form, but there is a highly branched form that resembles amylopectin with branch points separated by only 8-10 glucose subunits along the backbone. Cellulose is an unbranched polymer, analogous to amylose; however, the linkages between the glucose subunits are beta-1,4, rather than alpha-1,4.  Another demonstration of bioselectivity is at play in the discrimination between cellulose and amylose by our digestive system. The difference is significant because it prevents humans from being able to use cellulose as a glucose source, while we are able to use glycogen and starch. Humans do not posses the enzyme that hydrolyzes the beta-1,4 link in cellulose.  Hetero-Polysaccharides: An enormous set of possibilities for structures exist if one considers that variations can occur between the orientation of the glycosidic bond (alpha vs. beta), the sites to which the bond can be made on an adjacent monosaccharide, the number of different carbohydrates involved (glucose, galactose, ribose, etc), and the order in which they appear.  Such variation, even when a few monosaccharides are included, can give rise to an enormous number of uniquely recognizable structures. In some cases these varied structures can be attached to proteins and lipids to be used as identification/signaling devices on the surface of cells.  Many other hetero-polysaccharides exist to carryout a variety of functions within an organism. However, as implied by the name, the peptido-glycan is a covalent complex between a polysaccharide (glycan) and a peptide (a fragment of a protein). In the bacterial peptido-glycan, the linear hetero-polysaccharide chains are linked together by covalent bonds using a peptide as the linker.  The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. Here we will focus on some of the biologically important di- and polysaccharides with an emphasis on the ability to identify and describe the structures not the ability to draw the structures.  Disaccharides  Two of the most common disaccharides are lactose, or milk sugar, and sucrose, or common table sugar. disaccharide formed from two different monosaccharides. In the case of lactose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of galactose.  In the case of sucrose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of fructose. A third disaccharide that provides a transition to the common polysaccharides is maltose, a homo-disaccharide. Maltose is commonly found as a dietary supplement and naturally is produced as an intermediate breakdown product of starch. As such it also represents the basic repeating unit of the polysaccharides starch and glycogen. After completing this segment to investigate carbohydrates further, students will be able to:  Polysaccharides  Homopolysaccharides: Three major homopolymers found in nature are starch, glycogen and cellulose. Amylose is a linear polymer of glucose subunits linked end-to-end by alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bonds. For glycogen, there is no linear form, but there is a highly branched form that resembles amylopectin with branch points separated by only 8-10 glucose subunits along the backbone. Cellulose is an unbranched polymer, analogous to amylose; however, the linkages between the glucose subunits are beta-1,4, rather than alpha-1,4.  Another demonstration of bioselectivity is at play in the discrimination between cellulose and amylose by our digestive system. The difference is significant because it prevents humans from being able to use cellulose as a glucose source, while we are able to use glycogen and starch. Humans do not posses the enzyme that hydrolyzes the beta-1,4 link in cellulose.  Hetero-Polysaccharides: An enormous set of possibilities for structures exist if one considers that variations can occur between the orientation of the glycosidic bond (alpha vs. beta), the sites to which the bond can be made on an adjacent monosaccharide, the number of different carbohydrates involved (glucose, galactose, ribose, etc), and the order in which they appear.  Such variation, even when a few monosaccharides are included, can give rise to an enormous number of uniquely recognizable structures. In some cases these varied structures can be attached to proteins and lipids to be used as identification/signaling devices on the surface of cells.  Many other hetero-polysaccharides exist to carryout a variety of functions within an organism. However, as implied by the name, the peptido-glycan is a covalent complex between a polysaccharide (glycan) and a peptide (a fragment of a protein). In the bacterial peptido-glycan, the linear hetero-polysaccharide chains are linked together by covalent bonds using a peptide as the linker. Here we will focus on some of the biologically important di- and polysaccharides with an emphasis on the ability to identify and describe the structures not the ability to draw the structures.  Disaccharides  Two of the most common disaccharides are lactose, or milk sugar, and sucrose, or common table sugar. disaccharide formed from two different monosaccharides. In the case of lactose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of galactose.  In the case of sucrose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of fructose. A third disaccharide that provides a transition to the common polysaccharides is maltose, a homo-disaccharide. Maltose is commonly found as a dietary supplement and naturally is produced as an intermediate breakdown product of starch. As such it also represents the basic repeating unit of the polysaccharides starch and glycogen. That is a topic for later in the course. Insert picture of cellulose fibers In this case the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose but the end result is the formation of a matrix. By the end of this module, students will be able to:  The resulting peptide chain is linear, defined by the mechanism that builds the polymer, and has defined ends. By convention, the sequences of peptides and proteins are written with the N-terminus on the left and the C-terminus on the right. Which have planer aromatic groups? You can review the basic functional groups that were discussed in the first lecture by following this link. Note that you may have to click twice the first time you use this tool. as illustrated in the diagram to the right. The carboxylic acid group has a pKa of 2.0, and thus it is deprotonated at pH 7.0. It may be helpful to review the Functional Groups by clicking the Learn-By-Doing link below. By the end of this module, students will be able to:  The resulting peptide chain is linear, defined by the mechanism that builds the polymer, and has defined ends. By convention, the sequences of peptides and proteins are written with the N-terminus on the left and the C-terminus on the right. Which have planer aromatic groups? You can review the basic functional groups that were discussed in the first lecture by following this link. Note that you may have to click twice the first time you use this tool. as illustrated in the diagram to the right. The carboxylic acid group has a pKa of 2.0, and thus it is deprotonated at pH 7.0. It may be helpful to review the Functional Groups by clicking the Learn-By-Doing link below. After completing this examination of protein structures, students will be able to: You can click herescript('select all;color backbone chain') to color each of the separate chains in hemoglobin. Proteins do not exist as linear threads in the cells but rather as spontaneously folded higher order structures.  The oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin, is shown on the left. The heme groups, which are colored purple, are responsible for binding the oxygen. The protein component of hemoglobin is colored gray.  Secondary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;delay 0.25;select *:B and 4-18;define secondary selected;select all;color backbone cpk;set windowCentered off;center 11:B.CA;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 200;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;labels off;select secondary;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent;delay 0.2;select (not secondary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.15;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.1;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.1;backbone 25;color backbone [255,255,255];delay 0.1;backbone off;moveto 1 -200 966 -164 109 250;select all')describes the local structure of just the main chain atoms. Each subunit of hemoglobin contains a number of alpha-helical secondary structural elements. Clicking on the button will show you one of these.  Tertiary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select *:B;define tertiary selected;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;labels off;select tertiary;backbone 150;color group;delay 0.5;select (not tertiary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.2;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.2;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.2;backbone 25;delay 0.1;select all;backbone off;select tertiary;backbone 150;delay 1.0;set windowCentered off;center *:B;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 150;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of both the mainchain and sidechain atoms of one poly-peptide chain. In this section, you will explore the folding of proteins and how this folding dictates function. Upon completing this module, students will be able to: There are many examples of proteins that require more than one peptide chain to be functional. In the case of the estrogen receptor two identical peptide chains come together to form the functional protein. This is called a homo dimer. Hemoglobin is composed of four peptide chains; two identical alpha chains and two identical beta chains.  The interaction of the subunits in a quaternary complex represents another form of equilibrium. The individual polypeptide chains are made separately and must associate through specific complimentary interactions. Since this dimer is a combination of two different peptides it is called a heterodimer. Upon completing this module, students will be able to: There are many examples of proteins that require more than one peptide chain to be functional. In the case of the estrogen receptor two identical peptide chains come together to form the functional protein. This is called a homo dimer. Hemoglobin is composed of four peptide chains; two identical alpha chains and two identical beta chains.  The interaction of the subunits in a quaternary complex represents another form of equilibrium. The individual polypeptide chains are made separately and must associate through specific complimentary interactions. Since this dimer is a combination of two different peptides it is called a heterodimer. Because of this there is no rotation about the bond and therefore, proline terminates helix formation and places further constraints on the folding of the peptide chain. View the following video describing protein structures. Because of this partial double bond character, rotation around the C-N peptide bond is prevented and thus the peptide bond is planar. This is the first and a major constraint placed on protein folding. Two possible orientations of the planer peptide bond are possible, the trans from and the cis form. Although both are planer, the trans form is more stable and this form is shown in the diagram below. It should be noted that not all phi-psi angles are possible due to steric interference, electronic repulsion by side chains of the same charge and other factors all of which represent constraints in the folding of a protein. Watch this short video for a description of the and angles. Alpha Helix One of the constrained pairs of - angles gives rise to the secondary structural element referred to as the -helix. When the and angles are close to 180 degrees the peptide chain is fully extended, the -strand conformation exists. A -sheet forms when several -strands run either parallel or anti-parallel to each other. The side chains project above and below the plane of the -sheet. After completing this segment, student will be able to: The non-covalent interactions between the side chains include the following: Protein folding and stabilization is driven primarily by non-covalent interactions. The sulfhydryl group is highly reactive and will covalently bond with another sulfhydryl group to form a covalent disulfide bond (a cystine residue). The disulfide bond is reversible and is sensitive to the environment. After completing this segment, student will be able to: The non-covalent interactions between the side chains include the following: Protein folding and stabilization is driven primarily by non-covalent interactions. The sulfhydryl group is highly reactive and will covalently bond with another sulfhydryl group to form a covalent disulfide bond (a cystine residue). The disulfide bond is reversible and is sensitive to the environment.  Second there is the endo-membrane system. Here membrane proteins are inserted. The endo-membrane system also provides a mechanism to create mirco-environments in the cytoplasm by making vesicles. Upon completion of this module, students will be able to: The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. The lipids in the membrane are in random bulk flow moving about 22 µm (micrometers) per second. Phospholipids freely move in the same layer of the membrane and rarely flip to the other layer. Flipping of phospholipids from one layer to the other rarely occurs because flipping requires the hydrophilic head to pass through the hydrophobic region of the bilayer. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins. Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. The biological membrane is a collage of many different proteins embedded in the fluid matrix of the lipid bilayer. Proteins determine most of the membrane's specific functions. The plasma membrane and the membranes of the various organelles each have unique collections of proteins. Upon completion of this module, students will be able to: The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. The lipids in the membrane are in random bulk flow moving about 22 µm (micrometers) per second. Phospholipids freely move in the same layer of the membrane and rarely flip to the other layer. Flipping of phospholipids from one layer to the other rarely occurs because flipping requires the hydrophilic head to pass through the hydrophobic region of the bilayer. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins. Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. The biological membrane is a collage of many different proteins embedded in the fluid matrix of the lipid bilayer. Proteins determine most of the membrane's specific functions. The plasma membrane and the membranes of the various organelles each have unique collections of proteins. Click the "play" arrow to start the animation. Select a "chapter" from the menu on the right. Upon completion of this module, students will be able to: This family includes many hormones and cholesterol. Examine the effect of cholesterol on membrane fluidity using the animations below. Lipids serve many functions in organisms. Lipds are also the major components of waxes, pigments, and steroid hormones. An unsaturated fat has at least one unsaturated fatty acid, whereas a saturated fat has none. A saturated fat will pack well and be a solid a low temperatures. Layers of fat also surround the vital organs of animals to cushion them, and layers of fat under the skin of animals provide insulation. This occurs by a condensation reaction similar to the one discussed above. The third alcohol of the glycerol forms an ester bond through reaction with phosphoric acid. The phosphate group along with the glycerol group make the head of the phospholipid hydrophilic, whereas the fatty acid tail is hydrophobic. Thus phospholipids are amphipathic:a molecule with a polar end and a hydrophobic end. View the animation that demonstrates the formation of micelles and bilayers. The membrane is fluid at physiological temperatures and allows cells to change shape due to physical constraints or changing cellular volumes. Active Diffusion: Begin description of Active Diffusion In most cases the environment within the compartment is different than that in the cytoplasm. To carry out this function the lysosome maintains a much lower pH inside the lysosome relative to the cytoplasm. At equilibrium, the concentration of protons would be equal on both the inside and outside of the lysosome. To decrease the pH inside of the lysosome, the concentration of protons will need to be greater inside the lysosome than in the cytoplasm. To accomplish this protons will need to move from a low concentration to a high concentration. This process is referred to as active transport.  Transport Proteins These protein transporters contribute to the mosaic character of the fluid mosaic character of the biological membrane. There are a variety of different structures associated with transport proteins and at the same time many transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. There are three classifications of transport proteins based on mechanism of transport: Uniport, Symport and Antiport. The animations on the following pages will demonstrate the three classes of proteins with examples of each.  Antiport These proteins are very specific to the type of molecule they transport, just as enzymes are very specific for their ligands. Passive transport is possible when the transport molecule is moving a molecule down its concentration gradient. After studying this introduction to endocytosis, students will be able to:  Endocytosis This mechanism is referred to as endocytosis. This mechanism involves the engulfing of the matter by the plasma membrane and internalization of the engulfed material inside a cytoplasmic vesicle. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and its exposure to only the inside surface of the membrane is preserved. Exocytosis is just the reverse of this process with the fusion of an internal vesicle with the plasma membrane thus releasing its content to the outside. Once internalized the new vesicle fuses with a slightly acidic early endosome and subsequently with the lysosome where the contents of the original endocytic vesicle are digested and the digested products released to the cytoplasm where they are available for use by the cell. This process is depicted in the following animation. In the early 1990’s an intriguing observation was made that has lead to a number of new approaches to drug delivery and therapeutic delivery systems. The observation was the translocation of virtually any molecule, particle, even liposome that has the PTD attached. While there is still some debate as to the exact mechanism of the translocation, there is some agreement on the general process. Binding to the surface initiates macropinocytosis (pinocytosis with a slightly larger soluble molecule). The presence of the PTD provides for high efficiency initiation of endocytosis. In contrast to the normal endocytic vesicle the PTD directed endocytic vesicle undergoes retrograde transport. In this process the new vesicle fusses with the Golgi and is the PTD containing proteins are transported back to the Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum where they undergo post-translational modification and are transduced directly to the cytoplasm.  Endocytosis - OBSOLETE FILE  Receptor Mediated Endocytosis The following animation demonstrates the process of receptor mediated endocytosis for the Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) complex. The process is divided into the individual steps to emphasize similarities and differences among general endocytosis, protein transduction and receptor mediated endocytosis. Several general concepts are illustrated during the process including bioselectivity and intermediate recycling. [Insert: Receptor mediated endocytosis animation] Insert: Did I Get It? This mechanism is referred to as endocytosis. This mechanism involves the engulfing of the matter by the plasma membrane and internalization of the engulfed material inside a cytoplasmic vesicle. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and its exposure to only the inside surface of the membrane is preserved. Exocytosis is just the reverse of this process with the fusion of an internal vesicle with the plasma membrane thus releasing its content to the outside. Once internalized the new vesicle fuses with a slightly acidic early endosome an subsequently with the lysosome where the contents of the original endocytic vesicle are digested and the digested products released to the cytoplasm where they are available for use by the cell. This process is depicted in the following animation.  [Insert: simple endocytosis animation] In the early 1990’s an intriguing observation was made that has lead to a number of new approaches to drug delivery and therapeutic delivery systems. The observation was the translocation of virtually any molecule, particle, even liposome that has the PTD attached. While there is still some debate as to the exact mechanism of the translocation, there is some agreement on the general process. Binding to the surface initiates macropinocytosis (pinocytosis with a slightly larger soluble molecule). The presence of the PTD provides for high efficiency initiation of endocytosis.  [Insert: protein transduction animation (modified endocytosis animation)] In contrast to the normal endocytic vesicle the PTD directed endocytic vesicle undergoes retrograde transport. In this process the new vesicle fusses with the Golgi and is the PTD containing proteins are transported back to the Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum where they undergo post-translational modification and are transduced directly to the cytoplasm.  Facilitated Diffusion The following simulation depicts the facilitated diffusion of glucose across the membrane using the glucose permease transporter.  Osmosis This is illustrated in the following simulation. Conversely, a hypertonic solution refers to an extracellular solution with a higher solute concentration (lower water concentration [i.e.  Passive/Simple Diffusion: The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached in which the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. The lipid bilayer is much less permeable to the second type of molecule indicating a more polar character and a larger size. The third type of molecule is the very polar, in many cases charged, and usually larger molecule.  Aspirin In Protonated and non-Protonated States The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached in which the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Add ink to each beaker and watch the diffusion process. After a period of time, is there a difference in the distribution of ink in each beaker? Follow the yellow ink molecule in each beaker for some time. In which simulation does the yellow ball take longer to transverse the beaker? Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. The lipid bilayer is much less permeable to the second type of molecule indicating a more polar character and a larger size. The third type of molecule is very polar, in many cases charged, and usually a larger molecule.  Aspirin In Protonated and non-Protonated States Passive Diffusion: Begin description of Passive Diffusion Add content here. Add content here. Add content here. Upon further exploratiion of endocytosis, students will be able to: Receptor Mediated Endocytosis The following animation demonstrates the process of receptor mediated endocytosis for the Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) complex. The process is divided into the individual steps to emphasize similarities and differences among general endocytosis, protein transduction and receptor mediated endocytosis. Several general concepts are illustrated during the process including bioselectivity and intermediate recycling. The plasma membrane is a very selective barrier. Cells receive signals from the surrounding fluids and other cells. The animation below demonstrates the action of signal transduction through a G-Protein coupled receptor. The ligand is the external signal and it binds the receptor. The G-Protein complex is now able to bind to the receptor. This activates the G-protein by allowing the exchange of GTP for GDP. When bound to GTP the G-protein is able to bind to Adenylate cyclase and activate it.  The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. The plasma membrane is a very selective barrier. Cells receive signals from the surrounding fluids and other cells. The animation below demonstrates the action of signal transduction through a G-Protein coupled receptor. The ligand is the external signal and it binds the receptor. The G-Protein complex is now able to bind to the receptor. This activates the G-protein by allowing the exchange of GTP for GDP. When bound to GTP the G-protein is able to bind to Adenylate cyclase and activate it.  Symport Membrane Transport Upon investigation of transport proteins, students will be able to:  Transport Proteins These protein transporters contribute to the mosaic character of the fluid mosaic character of the biological membrane. There are a variety of different structures associated with transport proteins and at the same time many transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. There are three classifications of transport proteins based on mechanism of transport: Uniport, Symport and Antiport. The following image illustrates the three classes of proteins with examples of each.  Uniport  Intracellular Transport  Intercellular Transport The simulation below demonstrates how transmembrane protein structures from adjacent cells line up to form Gap Junctions, channels between cells that act as size exclusion transporters. The components of the backbone of the polymer include a set of furanose sugars linked together by bridging phosphate molecules in a synthesis between the 3 position of one furanose and the 5 position of the next furanose. This linkage is made through condensation synthesis formation of ester bonds by a bridging phosphate molecule between two hydroxyl groups, one on each furanose ring. The resulting polymer is a string of furanose molecules linked by phosphodiester bonds and having the 5 position exposed on one end of the polymer and the 3 position exposed on the other end of the molecule. In RNA (RiboNuceic Acid), the sugar is the monosaccharide ribose in the furanose conformation. Thus the ribose has X connected to the 1' position and hydroxyl groups on the 2', 3' and 5' positions. Using this nomenclature, deoxyribose is formally called 2'-deoxyribose (2 prime deoxyribose) to denote the loss of the hydroxyl at the 2' position of ribose. And, the resulting phosphodiester link is between the 3' position of one furanose and the 5' position on the second furanose. The synthesis of the backbones illustrated above is directed by specific enzymes that restrict the possible structures to links between the 3' position and the 5' position of the sugars with a bridging phosphate and to selected sugars with specific inclusion of either ribose or 2'-deoxyribose. These bases will be explored in the following sections. X represents a set of nitrogenous bases. The bases are divided into two fundamental ring structures: purines (2 fused aromatic rings) and pyrimidines (a single aromatic ring). This aromatic character also gives rise to the ability of the bases to absorb ultraviolet light at 260 nm. The structures of these nitrogenous bases are given below. The bases do not occur as free bases in nature but are always bound to a furanose ring. The base by itself has a specific name and the base attached to a sugar (a nucleoside) has a distinct name. The following table gives the names of the purines and pyrimidines as the free base and as the nucleoside with their one letter abbreviation. The naming of the nucleotidesA component of nucleic acids consisting of a sugar, usually ribose or deoxyribose, a purine or pyrimidine base, and a phosphate group attached either at the 5 prime or 3 prime position of the sugar ring. is analogous to the nucleosideA component of nucleic acids consisting of a sugar, usually ribose or deoxyribose, and a purine or pyrimidine base. A compound obtained by hydrolysis of a nucleic acid. with the added specification of the location of the phosphate group. A component of nucleic acids consisting of a sugar, usually ribose or deoxyribose, a purine or pyrimidine base, and a phosphate group attached either at the 5 prime or 3 prime position of the sugar ring. A component of nucleic acids consisting of a sugar, usually ribose or deoxyribose, and a purine or pyrimidine base. A compound obtained by hydrolysis of a nucleic acid. Linking the nucleotides together, a linear polymer is generated with sequences varying according to the placement of the bases along the final backbone. In the lower left of the frame is a schematic representation of the same sequence. Note the backbone to which each of the bases is attached. The forms of RNA include: rRNA: ribosomal RNA is a significant structural component of the ribosome and plays a role in the catalyzing the formation of the peptide bond during protein synthesis. Since the rRNA catalyzes the reaction, it is referred to as catalytic RNA or a ribozyme. Instructions: Drag the model with your mouse to rotate it in 3D space. Use your right mouse button or control click to select menu for exploring the model. Combining all of these roles together, the Central Dogma of modern molecular biology follows the process outlined in this section and depicted below. This immense amount of information has spawned the field of computational biology that is able to extract information from the sequences that can be applied to both our basic understanding of the functioning of organisms and to applications leading to potential cures for genetically inherited diseases. All of the possible hyrogen bonds may be useful later as we explore multiple structures especially for RNA. These characteristics describe what is referred to as the B-helix.  The following table compares some of the finer characteristics of the B-helix and A-helix. In general, the A-helix is broader than the B-helix, there are slightly more base pairs per turn in the A-helix, and most significantly, the tilt of the bases relative to the axis of the helix is much greater in the A-Helix. When exploring these structures you should focus on the following aspects of the structures, noting similarities and differences:  The location of phosphate, ribose, and bases with respect to the interior and exterior of the helix The location of the major and minor grooves. Proteins usually interact with the edges of the bases in the major groove. The tilt of the bases with respect to the axis of the helix. How the bases overlap with each other. As a result of the greater tilt in the bases relative to the helix axis, the bases of the A-helix slide past each other and do not exactly stack on top of each other as they do in the B-helix.  The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. These characteristics describe what is referred to as the B-helix.  The following table compares some of the finer characteristics of the B-helix and A-helix. In general, the A-helix is broader than the B-helix, there are slightly more base pairs per turn in the A-helix, and most significantly, the tilt of the bases relative to the axis of the helix is much greater in the A-Helix. When exploring these structures you should focus on the following aspects of the structures, noting similarities and differences:  The location of phosphate, ribose, and bases with respect to the interior and exterior of the helix The location of the major and minor grooves. Proteins usually interact with the edges of the bases in the major groove. The tilt of the bases with respect to the axis of the helix. How the bases overlap with each other. As a result of the greater tilt in the bases relative to the helix axis, the bases of the A-helix slide past each other and do not exactly stack on top of each other as they do in the B-helix. You can select individual groups or select by property. This means that the since the backbne has a 5' end and a 3' end, two strands hydridized to each other must have one strand oriented 5' to 3' and the complimentary strand 3' to 5' as illustrated below. As written this is a duplex of two strands of RNA. Instructions: The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix which is represented by either a 2D image (middle) or a 3D Jmol (right). Use the interactive 3D Jmol image to explore these features of the double helix:. This grooves expose the edges of the basepairs, The grooves are called the major groove and the minor groove. Both grooves are deep and expose the edges of the bases to the external environment, making them accessible for protein binding. The major groove on the other hand is quite wide (approximately 22 Angstroms across) and is sufficiently wide to accommodate a protein alpha helix. OBSOLETE Each block is joined by a oxygen-phosphate-oxygen bridge. As with proteins, the bases in the nucleic acid can interact with each other to form complex structures. add content here  The Origin of Replication – where to start  Following the rules  Overcoming Chromosome Shortening During replication of circular chromosomes, such as in bacteria, the leading strand of synthesis from one replication fork eventually meets the lagging strand of synthesis for the other replication fork and there is complete synthesis of the entire chromosome. For linear chromosomes this same process happens between two origins of replication. While the staggered end of the chromosome is not avoided, the net length of the chromosome is recovered or even lengthened. The diagrams below demonstrate how lengthening of the chromosome can be accomplished using the enzyme telomerase. The telomerase enzyme is a polymerase like enzyme that carries its own template with the template having overlap complementarity with the 3’ end of the chromosome. The criteria for polymerization are met, a template and a primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, and the telomerase lengthens the 3’ strand of the chromosome.  Being creative with the rules  Polymerase Chain Reaction  View PCR tutorial These are referred to as the forward primer and the reverse primer. The sample is cooled in the presence of the primers and each primer binds to its complementary strand. Such an enzyme was found from thermophilic bacteria (bacteria that thrive at extremely high temperatures). The reaction tube is put in an instrument called a thermocycler that can be programmed to automatically raise and lower the reaction temperature. These primers are the equivalent of the forward and reverse primers of PCR. However, if one of the dNTPs was substituted by a NTP that had no hydroxyl on either the 2’ or the 3’ position, a dideoxyNTP (ddNTP), it would be incorporated into the growing DNA strand through the 5’ position in a complementary position opposite its complementary base on the template strand but synthesis from that point forward would be terminated due to the absence of a hydroxyl on the 3’ position. The dideoxyNTP is referred to as a suicide substrate. If this experiment is performed for each individual nucleotide, the complete sequence of the template can be accomplished. For a typical prokaryotic (bacterial) chromosome there is one origin of replication and synthesis proceeds at a rate of approximately 500 bp(base pairs)/sec. Thus if a typical bacterial chromosome is 2x10e6 (two million) bp in length then the replication time of the chromosome would be about 30 minutes which is consistent with the life cycle of the typical bacterial being 30 to 40 minutes. The replication rate for the eukaryotic replication fork has been measured to be approximately 50 bp/sec. This means that for a eukaryotic chromosome of 10e8 bp to completely replicate starting at one origin of replication it would take approximately 23 days. To explain the enormous difference in time scale, it has been found that the eukaryotic chromosome has multiple origins of replication. The eukaryotic replication units have upwards of 80 origins which means the replication time is reduced to approximately 7 hrs. There are basically three types of mistakes that the enzyme can make during the synthesis: substitution of an incorrect base, insertion of an extra base or failure to insert a base resulting in a deletion. In the context of Replication it is important to touch on at least a couple of the means by which the system corrects errors or reduces the frequency of errors.  Editing the Synthesis Equally important to the organism is the ability to edit errors during synthesis by either preventing the incorporation of the incorrect base and/or by removing an incorrectly incorporated base before the next base is added. These editing functions can reduce the error frequency by 2 orders of magnitude. However, even this editing function does not get the error rate to an acceptable number for survival of an organism. It is to be noted that while different proteins may be used, the basic process is the same and follows the direction/rules dictated by the mechanism of the specific enzymes. The combination of these other editing and repair functions reduces the error rate by another 2 orders of magnitude thus reducing the error frequency to an acceptable level. The process is fundamentally the same in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. A small protein called SSB (Single Stranded Binding protein) coats the open complex.  The Open Complex From this point we will focus on the process of replication at one of the replication forks. Remember that the replication will be occurring simultaneously from both forks in opposite directions. This strand on which continuous synthesis takes place is referred to as the Leading Strand. In the animation you should be able to identify each of the stages of synthesis on each of the strands. At the end of the synthesis you will see that the leading strand has a continuous double helix generated while the lagging strand has a discontinuous set of Okazaki fragments that must be connected before the synthesis is complete. This process is referred to as nick translation. The process is fundamentally the same in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The new strand is a complementary copy of the template strand and satisfies the requirement of being antiparallel. The remainder of this section is under development; however, it is hoped that the animations gven below will provide some help in understanding the process. [Insert “Did I Get This?”] In the animation you should be able to identify each of the stages of synthesis on each of the strands. At the end of the synthesis you will see that the leading strand has a continuous double helix generated while the lagging strand has a discontinuous set of Okazaki fragments that must be connected before the synthesis is complete. This process is referred to as nick translation. This Central Dogma is diagrammed in the figure below. Deoxy-nucleotides are only added to the 3’ end of the primer and thus synthesis is unidirection from 5’ to 3’.  For synthesis to proceed, the enzyme imposes a third restriction on the substrate. Collectively these are referred to as dNTPs (deoxy-Nucleotide TriPhosphates).  Semi-conservative Replication This is referred to as conservative replication. This is referred to as semi-conservative replication. The “Learn More…” that follows shows the Meselson-Stahl experiment that was performed to prove that semi-conservative replication is the mechanism within biological systems.  Semi-conservative vs Conservative replication models The discussion will be organized around:  Transcription  The Products of Transcription The product of the process of transcription is RNA. Each of the RNA classes (rRNA, mRNA, and tRNA) is produced during transcription using a different RNA polymerase. Bioselectivity describes the discrimination of a specific RNA polymerase for a specific promoter yielding different RNA products. Equilibrium binding of the polymerase with the promoter explains the differential production of products using the same polymerase and different promoter sequences.  The Operon The organization of the genetic information on the chromosomes of prokaryotes and eukaryotes is different. In each case, as indicated below, the sequence for initiation of transcription is the Promoter and the sequence signaling the end of transcription is the Terminator. In contrast, prokaryotes generally have multiple genes, each coding for a separate product, under the control of a single promoter. The operon also contains the controlling elements for the operon. The control of expression of an operon is the topic for a separate unit.  The Promoter The promoter region of the operon is critical in defining how much or the frequency with which transcription of an operon takes place. Promoters have different sequences. The sigma subunit binds to the different promoter sequences with different affinities. In the illustration below, the sigma subunit binds to both of the promoters and a dissociation constant, Kd, can be written for each binding. Promoters can be characterized as being strong or weak promoters depending on their affinity for RNA polymerase. The result of a strong promoter with a high affinity (tight binding) to RNA polymerase is a greater frequency of starting transcription from that promoter. Therefore, more product from transcription initiated at a strong promoter is possible compared to product formation initiated from a weak promoter in the same amount of time.  RNA Synthesis Once RNA polymerase binds to the promoter, initiation of RNA synthesis or Transcription proceeds. The following animation depicts the steps of transcription. Post-Transcriptional Modification They each also undergo change or modification before they are used to carry out their specific function. For ribosomal-RNA (rRNA)the modification involves cutting of the original long segment of RNA transcript into fragments. The processing of the RNA takes place in the nucleus and the fragments are used in the nucleoli where ribosomes are assembled. For transfer-RNA (tRNA), the RNA transcript has a segment of the 5’ end removed, a trinucleotide that is common to all tRNAs (ACC) added to the 3’ end, and a short segment of RNA spliced out of the middle of the RNA sequence. The most extensively modified transcript is messenger-RNA (mRNA) in eukaryotic organisms. For this reason, the primary transcript or mRNA before it is modified is referred to as pre-mRNA. Recently, research has found that a number of mRNA sequences undergo what is referred to as alternative-splicing. If normal splicing is from the 3’ end of one exon and the 5’ end of the immediately following exon, imagine the number of possible splices that could occur if the 3’ end of the exon could be joined to the 5’ end of any exon downstream from the first exon. But it would be possible to link exon 1 to exon 3 to create a “new” protein with only two of the three exons. Errors in splicing have also been found to be the cause of certain diseases.  The Code The following animation describes the formation of the initiation complex, the elongation of the peptide during synthesis and the termination of the synthesis at the termination or stop codon. The process is fundamentally the same for prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The one notable exception is in the binding of the mRNA with the small subunit of the ribosome during formation of the initiation complex. Prokaryotes do not have a 5’cap to identify the end of the mRNA but they do have a consensus sequence called the Shine-Dalgarno-Sequence at the 5’ end of the mRNA. This sequence is used to align the mRNA with the appropriate site on the ribosomal subunit. In eukaryotic organisms the 5’cap provides the alignment along with multiple initiation factors. Following formation of the initiation complex, the synthesis of protein follows the same sequence in both organisms.  The Consequence or Error In a previous section a discussion of the methods used by the system to minimize these errors has been presented. However, even with editing functions, some errors are generated and result in changing of the reading code used during translation to a protein sequence. These changes are referred to as mutations and can be categorized into four different categories described by the end result of the mutation or change. Four nucleotides taken two at a time would generate 16 possible unique sequences. However, four nucleotides taken 3 at a time would generate 64 different unique sequences. Through experimentation it was found that the universal start code or codon is AUG and three stop codons (UAG, UGA and UAA) were identified. This third base then became known as the wobble base signifying the flexibility the system has in identifying the third base.  The Starting Materials Having identified a code to perform the translation, it is now necessary to describe the process by which the genetic code is used. Four major ingredients are necessary to carry out translation: m-RNA, t-RNA, the ribosome and the initiation factors. Messenger RNA (mRNA) was discussed in the last section with a description of the post-transcriptional modification that convert the pre-mRNA in the nucleus to mature-mRNA in the cytoplasm. The formation of the charged tRNA is a two-step process as depicted in the "Charging" animation below. The Following Learn by Doing contains an animation describing the tRNA structures.  Protein Synthesis The final stage of the Central Dogma is translation, which is defined as RNA Directed Protein Synthesis. This process is unique in that it takes information from one type of polymer (RNA) and translates that linear information into the linear sequence of a totally different polymer, a protein. This unit will describe that process and the elements that are required to have it function. The discussion will be organized around, Collectively, these enzymes, and their substrates and products, are referred to as a metabolic pathway. Important features of pathways include: The location and connections between these degradative pathways is shown below: Many of these pathways, with minor modifications, are reversed for synthetic purposes. Collectively, these enzymes, and their substrates and products, are referred to as a metabolic pathway. Important features of pathways include: The location and connections between these degradative pathways is shown below: Many of these pathways, with minor modifications, are reversed for synthetic purposes. Collectively, these enzymes, and their substrates and products, are referred to as a metabolic pathway. Important features of pathways include: The location and connections between these degradative pathways is shown below: Many of these pathways, with minor modifications, are reversed for synthetic purposes. By the end of this module, students should be able to: They usually begin with a number of different compounds, each of which represents a branch at the beginning of the pathway. These branches meet at a common intermediate, and the remaining section of the pathway is usually a linear segment. They usually consist of an initial linear segment, followed by branching to complex compounds at the end of the pathway. Common features of all metabolic pathways are:  They contain multiple intermediates (e.g. compounds A, B, C, ....), with small molecular differences between the intermediates. Each step, or conversion between intermediates, is catalyzed by an enzyme (e.g. E1). The pathway is regulated to optimize the use of resources. It is possible to reverse the direction of a metabolic pathways, depending on the needs of the organisms; a degradative pathway can become a synthetic one. Many of the enzymes that catalyze reactions in one direction can be easily reversed, and thus function in both pathways. A small number of steps utilize different enzymes in the forward versus the reverse direction. These enzymes are regulated in a coordinated fashion such that a pathway operates in only direction at time. Pathways can be: By the end of this module, students should be able to: Some general properties associated with the regulation of metabolic pathways are listed below There are five general methods by which the flux through a step in the pathway can be regulated. These methods differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of these methods is discussed below, with the more rapid form of regulation at the top of the list. Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme.  The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. By the end of this module, students should be able to: Some general properties associated with the regulation of metabolic pathways are listed below There are five general methods by which the flux through a step in the pathway can be regulated. These methods differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of these methods is discussed below, with the more rapid form of regulation at the top of the list. Biochem version new modern bio version version old version Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme. By the end of this module, students should be able to: Some general properties associated with the regulation of metabolic pathways are listed below There are five general methods by which the flux through a step in the pathway can be regulated. These methods differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of these methods is discussed below, with the more rapid form of regulation at the top of the list. Before beginning the graded quiz below, provide the following response to the learning objectives for this topic. By the end of this module, students should be able to: Some general properties associated with the regulation of metabolic pathways are listed below There are five general methods by which the flux through a step in the pathway can be regulated. These methods differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of these methods is discussed below, with the more rapid form of regulation at the top of the list. Before beginning the graded quiz below, provide the following response to the learning objectives for this topic. By the end of this module, students should be able to: Both of these methods are described in more detail below.  Direct coupling In this case a large negative Go for the reaction is created by directly coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable one on the same enzyme. Direct coupling: Reaction 1 and 2 are hypothetical half-reactions that sum to give the complete reaction at the bottom of the image. In the actual reaction the enzyme glucose kinase transfers the phospate group directly from ATP to glucose; hydrolysis of the ATP does not occur. Indirect coupling. In the first case, the favorable preceeding reaction causes the concentration of the substrates for the following unfavorable reaction to be higher than equilibrium, making G negative. For the case of a favorable following reaction, the concentration of the products of the unfavorable reaction are kept to a level that is smaller than the equilibrium concentration, again making G negative. This type of coupling between reactions is referred to as indirect coupling because the coupling between favorable and unfavorable reactions occurs indirectly, via alteration of concentrations of reactants and products. Indirect coupling: In the absence of coupling (left) the conversion of [B] to [C] is uphill energetically, and therefore not favorable.  The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. By the end of this module, students should be able to: Both of these methods are described in more detail below.  Direct coupling In this case a large negative Go for the reaction is created by directly coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable one on the same enzyme. Direct coupling: Reaction 1 and 2 are hypothetical half-reactions that sum to give the complete reaction at the bottom of the image. In the actual reaction the enzyme glucose kinase transfers the phospate group directly from ATP to glucose; hydrolysis of the ATP does not occur. Indirect coupling. In the first case, the favorable preceeding reaction causes the concentration of the substrates for the following unfavorable reaction to be higher than equilibrium, making G negative. For the case of a favorable following reaction, the concentration of the products of the unfavorable reaction are kept to a level that is smaller than the equilibrium concentration, again making G negative. This type of coupling between reactions is referred to as indirect coupling because the coupling between favorable and unfavorable reactions occurs indirectly, via alteration of concentrations of reactants and products. Indirect coupling: In the absence of coupling (left) the conversion of [B] to [C] is uphill energetically, and therefore not favorable. These include: The reaction showing the synthesis of ATP from ADP and phosphate is pictured below. Phosphorylation of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) produces adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This reaction requires the input of approximately 30 kJ/mol. Formation of ATP occurs when the negatively charged phosphate group on ADP attacks the electropositive phosphate in inorganic phosphate, forming a phosphate anhydride bond with the release of water (red arrow). Once the phosphate group is removed, the unfavorable repulsion disappears. The oxidation of the aldehyde to the thioester is highlighted in green. CoA is coenzyme A, a nucleotide containing cofactor that is an essential co-substrate for many reactions. In the case of acetyl-CoA (lower diagram) the thioester facilitates the attachment of the acetyl group to oxaloacetate to form citrate, the first compound in the TCA cycle. By the end of this module, students should be able to: The pair of compounds that exchange electrons are often referred to as a redox couple.  In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. Oxidation of FAD. The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Try the following mini-tutor to test your skill at assessing whether a redox reaction has occurred. Oxidation-reduction reactions, or Redox reactions are common in metabolic pathways. In contrast, synthetic (anabolilc) pathways, are generally reductive pathways. Oxidations involve the loss of electrons. Reductions involve the gain of electrons. Here are two mnemonics to help you remember where the electrons go during redox reactions:  LEO GER: "leo [the lion] goes grr". Lose electrons oxidation, gain electron reduction. OIL RIG: Oxidation involves loss, reduction involves gain. The above reaction is an incomplete description of a redox reaction because it does not indicate the fate of the electrons that were obtained from iron. Since free electrons generally cannot exist, all oxidation reactions must be coupled to a corresponding reduction. Since the above reaction only describes one-half of the reaction it is referred to as a half-reaction. The oxidation of iron could be coupled to the reduction of copper ions, which is described by the following half-reaction: The complete reaction, balanced such that there are no free electrons, is: By the end of this module, students should be able to: The pair of compounds that exchange electrons are often referred to as a redox couple.  In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. Oxidation of FAD. The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Try the following mini-tutor to test your skill at assessing whether a redox reaction has occurred. Oxidation-reduction reactions, or Redox reactions are common in metabolic pathways. In contrast, synthetic (anabolilc) pathways, are generally reductive pathways. Oxidations involve the loss of electrons. Reductions involve the gain of electrons. Here are two mnemonics to help you remember where the electrons go during redox reactions:  LEO GER: "leo [the lion] goes grr". Lose electrons oxidation, gain electron reduction. OIL RIG: Oxidation involves loss, reduction involves gain. The above reaction is an incomplete description of a redox reaction because it does not indicate the fate of the electrons that were obtained from iron. Since free electrons generally cannot exist, all oxidation reactions must be coupled to a corresponding reduction. Since the above reaction only describes one-half of the reaction it is referred to as a half-reaction. The oxidation of iron could be coupled to the reduction of copper ions, which is described by the following half-reaction: The complete reaction, balanced such that there are no free electrons, is: By the end of this module, students should be able to: The pair of compounds that exchange electrons are often referred to as a redox couple.  In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. Oxidation of FAD. The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Oxidation-reduction reactions, or Redox reactions are common in metabolic pathways. In contrast, synthetic (anabolilc) pathways, are generally reductive pathways. Oxidations involve the loss of electrons. Reductions involve the gain of electrons. Here are two mnemonics to help you remember where the electrons go during redox reactions:  LEO GER: "leo [the lion] goes grr". Lose electrons oxidation, gain electron reduction. OIL RIG: Oxidation involves loss, reduction involves gain. The above reaction is an incomplete description of a redox reaction because it does not indicate the fate of the electrons that were obtained from iron. Since free electrons generally cannot exist, all oxidation reactions must be coupled to a corresponding reduction. Since the above reaction only describes one-half of the reaction it is referred to as a half-reaction. The oxidation of iron could be coupled to the reduction of copper ions, which is described by the following half-reaction: The complete reaction, balanced such that there are no free electrons, is: Pathways accomplish the net conversion of the starting compounds to the final product of the pathway. During the normal operation of a pathway there is a constant flux of material through the pathway in one direction. Note that many pathways are reversible and operate in the forward or reverse direction, depending on the needs of the organism. Reversing the direction of a pathway requires changing the relative energies of the reactants and products Mathematically, this can be shown as follows: Therefore KEQ=1, and fA=1/(1+1) = 0.5 and fB=1/(1+1) = 0.5 Note that in this equation, the concentration of [A] and [B] are not necessarily at their equilibrium concentrations. It can be shown that: You can explore these relationships in the following tutorial. This method is particularly useful because it can be applied to reactions that are not at equilibrium, which is the situation encountered during metabolism. The presence of enzymes simply increases the rate of conversion from reactants to products, the enzyme cannot alter the relative energies of these compounds. Consider the simple reaction [A] to [B]. If we start with a system that is pure [A] it will spontaneously form some [B] until equilibrium is reached. When a system is at equilibrium, the concentration of products and reactants are constant and it is possible to write an equilibrium constant for the reaction: where, KEQ is: Note that [A] and [B] are at their equilibrium concentrations in this formula.  or  For the simple reaction of A to B, the fraction of the system in state [A] is:  In a similar fashion, the fraction in state [B] is: By the end of this module, students should be able to: Isomerase. Unfortunately, the descriptive word "isomerase" is often omitted from their name. Hydratase. Synthetase. Citrate synthase catalyzes the following reaction, which is the first in the citric acid (TCA) cycle. Most enzymes bind a specific substrate, perform a simple chemical change on that substrate, and then release a product. Each enzyme has a unique name. Usually, the name of an enzymes is systematic, but many exceptions exist. Usually, but unfortunately not always, the name of the enzyme is derived from the nature of the chemical change that it catalyzes. To further clarify the name of the enzyme, the name of the substrate or product is often included in the name. Keep in mind that most reactions in pathways are reversible, so the name may describe the reverse reaction. Lastly, in cases when enzymes bind more than one substrate, the name can also suggest the co-substrate. For examples, dehydrogenases will use NAD+ or FAD as co-substrates.  Kinase. A kinase transfers a phosphate group from ATP to the substrate.  Alternatively, a kinase may be involved in regulation of enzymes by transferring a phosphate from ATP to a Serine, Threonine, or Tyrosine on the enzyme that is being regulated. The phosphorylated form of the enzyme may be active or inactive. Phosphatase. A phosphatase removes a phosphate group by a hydrolysis reaction, producing inorganic phosphate. ADP or ATP are not involved in the reaction.  Dehydrogenase. The name is applied to both oxidation and reduction reactions. By the end of this module, students should be able to: The following learn-by-doing activity allows you to investigate the chemical and energetic changes that occur in glycolysis. Once you open up the page, explore it using the embedded questions to prepare you for the self-assessment at the end of this module. Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway. You may also explore this activity in a separate larger window  Under anaerobic (oxygen limited) conditions, which occurs in the muscle tissue during vigorous activity, the NADH produced in glycolysis cannot be reoxidized to NAD+ by electron transport because there is insufficient oxygen to accept electrons. The levels of NAD+ can be restored by using pyruvate as the electron acceptor. In mammals, lactate is the product of this reaction. In yeast, it is alcohol and the process of anaerobic glycolysis is referred to as fermentation. The reduction of pyruvate will oxidize NADH to NAD+, allowing glycolysis to resume. The lactate that is produced by active muscle tissue is transported to the liver. When oxygen becomes available, the lactate is reoxidized to pyruvate and it can then be used for the synthesis of glucose.  The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. Glycolysis is the first pathway that occurs in the metabolism of carbohydrates. This pathway occurs in the cytosol of all cells, i.e. it is a highly conserved and ubiquitous pathway. Although many different disaccharides are broken down into monosaccharides and enter the glycolysis, we will focus on how glucose is metabolized in this section. The entry points of other sugars will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. An overall summary of glycolysis is depicted below:  Key features of Glycolysis: Pyruvate is further oxidized in the TCA cycle. Four ATP (2/pyruvate) are produced later in the pathway. Consequently, the net yield is two ATP. A single oxidation step produces one molecule of NADH/pyruvate. The key regulatory step is the addition of the second phosphate to fructose, by the enzyme phosphofructose kinase If the glucose concentration in both compartments are the same, then =0 and there is no net movement of glucose across the membrane.  The levels of glucose in the blood vary considerably at times. We will discuss how glucose levels are regulated in the section on integrated metabolism. By the end of this module, students should be able to: The following learn-by-doing activity allows you to investigate the chemical and energetic changes that occur in glycolysis. Once you open up the page, explore it using the embedded questions to prepare you for the self-assessment at the end of this module. Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway. You may also explore this activity in a separate larger window  Under anaerobic (oxygen limited) conditions, which occurs in the muscle tissue during vigorous activity, the NADH produced in glycolysis cannot be reoxidized to NAD+ by electron transport because there is insufficient oxygen to accept electrons. The levels of NAD+ can be restored by using pyruvate as the electron acceptor. In mammals, lactate is the product of this reaction. In yeast, it is alcohol and the process of anaerobic glycolysis is referred to as fermentation. The reduction of pyruvate will oxidize NADH to NAD+, allowing glycolysis to resume. The lactate that is produced by active muscle tissue is transported to the liver. When oxygen becomes available, the lactate is reoxidized to pyruvate and it can then be used for the synthesis of glucose. Glycolysis is the first pathway that occurs in the metabolism of carbohydrates. This pathway occurs in the cytosol of all cells, i.e. it is a highly conserved and ubiquitous pathway. Although many different disaccharides are broken down into monosaccharides and enter the glycolysis, we will focus on how glucose is metabolized in this section. The entry points of other sugars will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. An overall summary of glycolysis is depicted below:  Key features of Glycolysis: Pyruvate is further oxidized in the TCA cycle. Four ATP (2/pyruvate) are produced later in the pathway. Consequently, the net yield is two ATP. A single oxidation step produces one molecule of NADH/pyruvate. The key regulatory step is the addition of the second phosphate to fructose, by the enzyme phosphofructose kinase If the glucose concentration in both compartments are the same, then =0 and there is no net movement of glucose across the membrane.  The levels of glucose in the blood vary considerably at times. We will discuss how glucose levels are regulated in the section on integrated metabolism. The tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, also known as the Krebs cycle or the citric acid cycle, is a central pathway in the metabolism of all organisms. The electrons that are released from these oxidations are stored on NADH and FADH2 for subsequent processing by the electron transport chain. Entry of carbohydrates into the TCA cycle occurs by the transport of pyruvate from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial matrix. There, the pyruvate undergoes a process called oxidative decarboxylation to produce a key intermediate in metabolism, acetyl-CoA, which enters the TCA cycle. The remaining steps in the TCA cycle convert citrate back to oxaloacetate. This process produces: Given the above information, your task is to deduce the series of reactions that convert citrate back to oxaloacetate using the following learn-by-doing activity. Intermediates of the TCA cycle are utilized in the following synthetic pathways: What major metabolite is missing from this list? Carbohydrates! How glucose is synthesized from pyruvate will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. Consequently it is necessary to "fill up" the TCA cycle with an "anaplerotic" reaction. In this case, pyruvate is converted to oxaloacetate by the enzyme pyruvate carboxylase: By the end of this module, students should be able to: The mechanism of ATP synthase is such that the enzyme generates one ATP molecule every time 3 protons are transferred back to the matrix from the inter-membrane space. If the products are defined as the protons that have been transported to the matrix, the formula is: where Z is the change on the transported particle, F is Faraday's constant (96,494 Coulomb/mol) and is the voltage difference across the membrane: Its form is analogous to the formula give for the transport of glucose across the membrane in glycolysis. Typical proton concentration differences across the inner membrane are approximately 10 fold, with the outside being more acidic. In addition to the concentration difference, there is also an approximately 100 mV voltage difference across the membrane, with the inside being more negative. Therefore the transport of 3 protons will release 45.9 kJ/mol, which is more than sufficient to generate a single ATP.  The enzyme consists of two separable subunits. The Fo subunit is within the membrane and is responsible for the transfer of protons through the membrane. The F1 subunit extends into the mitochondrial matrix and is responsible for the synthesis of ATP. The F1 subunit is composed of three subunits and three subunits. The subunit extends from the Fo domain through the center of the - sphere. The subunit rotates 120 degrees every time three protons flows through the Fo domain. The - sphere is prevented from rotating along with the subunit by the b-subunit, which anchors the - sphere to the membrane. The conformation of the - subunits is affected by the relative position of the subunit. Since the gamma subunit rotates 120o, there are three possible conformations of the - subunits: The cycle of ATP synthesis is as follows:  ADP and inorganic phosphate bind to the subunits that have high affinity for these compounds. A three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing a 120o rotation of the -subunit. The rotation of the -subunit causes a conformational change in the - subunits. ATP is more stable in the new conformation of the - subunits, consequently the bound ADP and inorganic phosphate is spontaneously converted to ATP. Another three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing another 120o rotation of the subunit. This rotation causes an additional conformational change of the - subunits, generating the conformation that has low affinity for ATP and ADP, thus the newly synthesized ATP is released. A three additional protons flows through the Fo domain, causing another rotation of subunits. This restores the system to the starting conditions. The coupling between the proton gradient and the chemical synthesis of ATP, was originally proposed by Dr. Peter Michell in 1961 as the chemiosmotic hypothesis. His theory proved to be true, leading to a Nobel prize for his work in 1978. Complete rotation of the subunit requires the transfer of 9 protons across the membrane. Consequently, only three protons are required to synthesize one ATP.  The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once.  The electron transport chain consists of four multi-protein complexes that are contained within the inner mitochondrial membrane. This proton gradient is used to drive the synthesis of ATP. Various compounds are used by the electron transport chain to carry electrons. These components include: The organization of the four complexes and electron carriers in the electron transport chain are illustrated in the following diagram: NADH is oxidized by the electron transport chain by the transfer of the two electrons from NADH to complex I. These electrons are then transferred to coenzyme Q, followed by transfer to complex III. The electrons are then carried by cytochrome C to complex IV, where the electrons are used to reduce oxygen to water. For every pair of electrons, four protons are transported by complex I, four by complex II and two by complex IV. The electrons from FADH2 are first processed by complex II. Complex II is actually succinate dehydrogenase from the TCA cycle. The electron acceptor for succinate, FAD, is tightly bound to the enzyme. Consequently, it is more correct to consider that complex II processes the electrons from succinate, first passing them to FAD and then via iron-sulfur centers to coenzyme Q. The two electrons then follow the same path as those from NADH2, from coenzyme Q to complex III, and then to complex IV via cytochrome C, finally to oxygen to produce water. Since electron transport through complex II does not result in the transport of protons only a total of 6 protons/2 electrons are transported across the inner membrane when succinate is the initial electron donor. In summary: It must be converted to a more usable source, such as ATP. This enzyme is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and it projects into the matrix. By the end of this module, students should be able to: The mechanism of ATP synthase is such that the enzyme generates one ATP molecule every time 3 protons are transferred back to the matrix from the inter-membrane space. If the products are defined as the protons that have been transported to the matrix, the formula is: where Z is the change on the transported particle, F is Faraday's constant (96,494 Coulomb/mol) and is the voltage difference across the membrane: Its form is analogous to the formula give for the transport of glucose across the membrane in glycolysis. Typical proton concentration differences across the inner membrane are approximately 10 fold, with the outside being more acidic. In addition to the concentration difference, there is also an approximately 100 mV voltage difference across the membrane, with the inside being more negative. Therefore the transport of 3 protons will release 45.9 kJ/mol, which is more than sufficient to generate a single ATP.  The enzyme consists of two separable subunits. The Fo subunit is within the membrane and is responsible for the transfer of protons through the membrane. The F1 subunit extends into the mitochondrial matrix and is responsible for the synthesis of ATP. The F1 subunit is composed of three subunits and three subunits. The subunit extends from the Fo domain through the center of the - sphere. The subunit rotates 120 degrees every time three protons flows through the Fo domain. The - sphere is prevented from rotating along with the subunit by the b-subunit, which anchors the - sphere to the membrane. The conformation of the - subunits is affected by the relative position of the subunit. Since the gamma subunit rotates 120o, there are three possible conformations of the - subunits: The cycle of ATP synthesis is as follows:  ADP and inorganic phosphate bind to the subunits that have high affinity for these compounds. A three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing a 120o rotation of the -subunit. The rotation of the -subunit causes a conformational change in the - subunits. ATP is more stable in the new conformation of the - subunits, consequently the bound ADP and inorganic phosphate is spontaneously converted to ATP. Another three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing another 120o rotation of the subunit. This rotation causes an additional conformational change of the - subunits, generating the conformation that has low affinity for ATP and ADP, thus the newly synthesized ATP is released. A three additional protons flows through the Fo domain, causing another rotation of subunits. This restores the system to the starting conditions. The coupling between the proton gradient and the chemical synthesis of ATP, was originally proposed by Dr. Peter Michell in 1961 as the chemiosmotic hypothesis. His theory proved to be true, leading to a Nobel prize for his work in 1978. Complete rotation of the subunit requires the transfer of 9 protons across the membrane. Consequently, only three protons are required to synthesize one ATP.  The electron transport chain consists of four multi-protein complexes that are contained within the inner mitochondrial membrane. This proton gradient is used to drive the synthesis of ATP. Various compounds are used by the electron transport chain to carry electrons. These components include: The organization of the four complexes and electron carriers in the electron transport chain are illustrated in the following diagram: NADH is oxidized by the electron transport chain by the transfer of the two electrons from NADH to complex I. These electrons are then transferred to coenzyme Q, followed by transfer to complex III. The electrons are then carried by cytochrome C to complex IV, where the electrons are used to reduce oxygen to water. For every pair of electrons, four protons are transported by complex I, four by complex II and two by complex IV. The electrons from FADH2 are first processed by complex II. Complex II is actually succinate dehydrogenase from the TCA cycle. The electron acceptor for succinate, FAD, is tightly bound to the enzyme. Consequently, it is more correct to consider that complex II processes the electrons from succinate, first passing them to FAD and then via iron-sulfur centers to coenzyme Q. The two electrons then follow the same path as those from NADH2, from coenzyme Q to complex III, and then to complex IV via cytochrome C, finally to oxygen to produce water. Since electron transport through complex II does not result in the transport of protons only a total of 6 protons/2 electrons are transported across the inner membrane when succinate is the initial electron donor. In summary: It must be converted to a more usable source, such as ATP. This enzyme is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and it projects into the matrix. By the end of this module, students will be able to: The storage and metabolism of glucose is controlled at the organ level by hormones. The hormones glucagon and insulin are secreted by the pancreas during periods of low or high blood sugar, respectively. Glucagon causes the liver to produce glucose from the storage polysaccharide glycogen or to synthesize glucose from pyruvate using the pathway gluconeogenesis.  The hormone epinephrine,which is produced by the central nervous system in response to dangerous situations, evokes the same response as glucagon, the release of glucose from the liver. These hormones do not directly affect the enzymes involved in glucose metabolism and storage. Phosphorylation results in the activation of enzymes that cause the release of glucose from glycogen and also results in the synthesis of new glucose by the anabolic pathway gluconeogenesis. Dephosphorylation of enzymes causes the activation of enzymes involved in the storage of glucose in glycogen and can also result in the activation of glucose oxidation for ATP production. Since the protein kinases and phosphatases that are involved in the activation of enzymes are enzymes themselves, amplification of the initial hormone-receptor signal occurs. By the end of this module, students should be able to: Glycogen is a polysaccharide that is used to store glucose in both liver and muscle cells. In plants, amylopectin serves the same role. Glycogen consists of glucose residues linked together in a linear chain with -(1-4) linkages. Multiple chains are joined together by the formation of -(1-6) linkages, giving rise to a highly branched polymer. The principle reason for the storage of glucose as glycogen is to reduce the osmotic effects that would otherwise occur from the high concentration of glucose in cells. When needed, glucose is released from glycogen by a reaction catalyzed by the enzyme glycogen phosphorylase. This enzyme breaks an -(1-4) linkage at the end of glycogen polymer by the addition of an inorganic phosphate. The product of this reaction, glucose-1-P, can enter glycolysis after conversion to glucose-6-P. Note that this entry point for glucose skips the first step in glycolysis, avoiding the need to activate glucose using ATP. For storage, glucose is added to the free 4-hydroxyl groups of the glycogen molecule, elongating the linear chains. Since the release of glucose by phosphorolysis is spontaneous, the direct addition of glucose to glycogen must be energetically unfavorable. The addition of glucose to glycogen proceeds in two steps. Regulation of Glycogen Synthesis and Degradation: Glycogen synthesis and degradation is controlled by the phosophorylation state of the enzymes. By the end of this module, students should be able to:  During glycolysis glucose is oxidized to pyruvate. The reverse reaction, the synthesis of glucose from pyruvate occurs in the gluconeogenesis pathway. The major source of pyruvate in the liver is lactate that was produced by active muscle during anaerobic metabolism. These steps are:  The formation of glucose-6-P from glucose, coupled to ATP hydrolysis. The formation of fructose-1-6-P from fructose-6-P, coupled to ATP hydrolysis. Since the first two reactions use ATP to drive an otherwise unfavorable reaction, the phosphorylation of sugars, the simpler reverse reaction, hydrolysis, will be favorable and spontaneous. Consequently, in gluconeogenesis these two steps are catalyzed by phosphatases instead of kinases. In gluconeogenesis the conversion of pyruvate to PEP in gluconeogenesis occurs by in two steps:  The enzyme pyruvate carboxylase catalyzes: pyruvate + HCO3- + ATP → oxaloacetate + ADP + Pi The enzyme PEP carboxykinase catalyzes: oxaloacetate + GTP → phosphoenolpyruvate + GDP + CO2. The complete pathways for glucolysis and gluconeogenesis are shown below: By the end of this module, students should be able to: the production and release of glucose when glucagon or epinephrine are present, or the storage and, if required, the oxidation of glucose when insulin is present. Glycolysis and gluconeogenesis are regulated at two levels. Second, at the organ level, the enzymes are regulated by hormones. However, unlike glycogen metabolism, this regulation is not via protein phosphorylation but by changes in levels of the allosteric regulatory compound fructose 2,6 bisphosphate (F26P). The levels of F26P are indirectly regulated by hormones by virtue of the fact that the activity of the enzymes that make and degrade F26P are a affected by protein phosphorylation. Cells have a relatively constant amount of adenosine nucleotides, i.e. the sum of the concentrations of AMP, ADP, and ATP are relatively constant. If ATP levels are high, then glycolysis should be turned off.  The enzymes phosphofructose kinase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase are under allosteric control by adenosine nucleotides: High ATP HIgh AMP (low ATP) Note that these two enzymes are regulated in a coordinated manner such that only one pathway, glycolysis or gluconeogenesis, is turned on at one time.  Regulation by Hormonal Control. The compound fructose -2,6 bisphosphate (F26P) is an allosteric activator of PFK. F26P also inhibits fructose bisphosphatase, the key regulatory enzyme in gluconeogenesis. The levels of F26P are controlled by hormones via protein phosphorylation levels. When protein phosphorylation levels are high, F26P is degraded, when phosphorylation levels are low, F26P is synthesized. By the end of this module, students should be able to: Consequently, pyruvate will not be converted to acetyl-CoA if there is excess NADH or acetyl-CoA. Furthermore, the hormones glucagon and epinephrine, which evoke protein phosphorlation, prevent the loss of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA such that pyruvate can be used for the synthesis of glucose.  The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. After activation, the activated fatty acid is transported to the mitochondria where it is subject to a pathway called beta-oxidation. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle for further oxidation. As with glycolysis/gluconeogenesis many of the same enzymes are utilized in both pathways. However, highly exergonic reactions in the degradative pathway are accomplished by a different mechanism in the synthetic pathway. Complex carbohydrates are converted to monosaccharides and enter glycolysis at a number of different points. Most monosaccharides enter glycolysis above the step catalyzed by phosophofructose kinase (PFK). Consequently, the degradation of practically all sugars is controlled by this key regulatory enzyme. A key feature of human metabolism is the fact that the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is irreversible. Under these conditions, any excess acetyl-CoA is stored as fat, regardless of the source of the acetyl-CoA. The ingestion of excess amounts of proteins or carbohydrates result in the generation of fat. Consequently, the enzyme that converts pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is tightly regulated. Pyruvate dehydrogenase is inhibited by: By the end of this module, students should be able to: Consequently, pyruvate will not be converted to acetyl-CoA if there is excess NADH or acetyl-CoA. Furthermore, the hormones glucagon and epinephrine, which evoke protein phosphorlation, prevent the loss of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA such that pyruvate can be used for the synthesis of glucose. After activation, the activated fatty acid is transported to the mitochondria where it is subject to a pathway called beta-oxidation. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle for further oxidation. As with glycolysis/gluconeogenesis many of the same enzymes are utilized in both pathways. However, highly exergonic reactions in the degradative pathway are accomplished by a different mechanism in the synthetic pathway. Complex carbohydrates are converted to monosaccharides and enter glycolysis at a number of different points. Most monosaccharides enter glycolysis above the step catalyzed by phosophofructose kinase (PFK). Consequently, the degradation of practically all sugars is controlled by this key regulatory enzyme. A key feature of human metabolism is the fact that the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is irreversible. Under these conditions, any excess acetyl-CoA is stored as fat, regardless of the source of the acetyl-CoA. The ingestion of excess amounts of proteins or carbohydrates result in the generation of fat. Consequently, the enzyme that converts pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is tightly regulated. Pyruvate dehydrogenase is inhibited by: Biotic Chemistry In this Unit you’ve learned what biology is and how it fits into science and society. It provides us with many practical benefits involving health, environmental issues, and much more. This course will focus on some of the foundations of biology: chemistry, cells, and metabolism. These drugs cannot be used against viruses and their misuse can lead to the evolution of resistance among bacteria. Biology takes place over a huge range of scales in space and time. A complete understanding of biology requires an interdisciplinary approach. In particular, concepts from chemistry and physics are required to explain biological systems at many levels. Each level takes on unique emergent properties that arise from complex interactions at lower levels. The properties of tissues and organs emerge from interactions among cells; tissues and organs combine to form an organism; and multiple organisms give rise to populations, communities, and complex ecosystems. A key feature of biology, as well as all other sciences, is that our understanding of biology has developed through the application of the scientific method. In science, doubt is a celebrated value and evidence takes the form of verifiable observations. Based on existing knowledge and observations, scientists form one or more hypotheses on how a system works. Hypotheses are tested by analyzing data from experiments or observations to determine whether the hypothesis is supported by the data. A non-scientific claim is a hypothesis that cannot be effectively tested by verifiable observations or experiments. Before you attempt the following quiz, ask yourself these questions. If the answer to any of them is “no,” go back and review to improve your confidence: In this unit you have learned what biology is and how it fits into science and society. It provides us with many practical benefits involving health, environmental issues, and much more. This course will focus on some of the foundations of biology: chemistry, cells, and metabolism. These drugs cannot be used against viruses, and their misuse can lead to the evolution of resistance among bacteria. You have learned about evolution, which occurs (and is still occurring) over a huge span of time. The properties of tissues and organs emerge from interactions among cells; tissues and organs combine to form an organism; and multiple organisms give rise to populations, communities, and complex ecosystems. A key feature of biology, as well as all other sciences, is that our understanding of biology has developed through the application of scientific inquiry. In science, doubt is a celebrated value and evidence takes the form of verifiable observations. Based on existing knowledge and observations, scientists form one or more hypotheses on how a system works. Hypotheses are tested by analyzing data from experiments or observations to determine whether the hypothesis is supported by the data. A nonscientific claim is a hypothesis that cannot be effectively tested by verifiable observations or experiments. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.  The following is the list of terms defined in UNIT 1 of this course. Understanding the basic principles of chemistry is vitally important in studying biology, as many biological interactions involve chemistry.  All of the populations interacting with each other within a specified area.  All the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic (nonliving) materials and conditions in that area.  Characteristics of a system that do not appear in any one of its component parts alone, but that appear when all parts are combined.  A collection of tissues grouped together based on a common general function.  A compartment inside the cells of eukaryotes that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions.  An organism is an individual living entity that survives and reproduces as a unit.  A group of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function within an organism. In the lung, for instance, the lining of airways comprises one type of tissue: a layer of similar cells that forms a sealed surface. Humans and other animals are consumers, as are fungi and most bacteria.  A scientific theory explaining how and why genetic changes occur in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time.  Increase in size of an organism. Biological growth, unlike the growth of a glacier or a mountain, is not merely an increase in size; it also involves the reorganization of materials into the unique structures of the organism.  The tendency of organisms and cells to maintain stable internal conditions. The term comes from the Greek words homeo (same, alike) and stasis (standing). An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond.  Forms of matter that an organism requires and that the organism cannot make for itself. Nutrients must be taken in from the outside environment. Process by which an individual organism gives rise to offspring, passing on its genetic information to the next generation. Selection takes forms such as natural selection (favors traits that aid in survival to reproductive age), sexual selection (favors traits that boost mating success), and artificial selection (favors traits that are chosen by human breeders). A group of subjects in an experiment that does not receive the treatment to be evaluated, but is otherwise similar to the experimental group. The control group provides a strong basis for comparison, demonstrating what happens in the absence of the factor being tested. An effect; a variable that is thought to change as a result or consequence of some other variable. In an experiment, a dependent variable is used to describe the result, or outcome. A group of subjects in an experiment that receives the treatment to be evaluated. If the hypothesis is correct, the dependent variable will change in a predictable way within the experimental group. A proposed explanation of an observation; often referred to as an “educated guess.” In the process of the scientific method, a hypothesis is tested through experimentation and/or observation. A cause or factor; a variable that is thought to cause another variable to change. In an experiment, an independent variable is deliberately changed in one group at the beginning of the study. A structured and active process used to test a hypothesis. In an experiment, the scientist has some form of control over the variables at work in the system under study. Typically some variable is deliberately changed by the experimenter and other variables are monitored to see if they change as a result. An adjective that describes materials that are considered nonliving. Rocks, air, and ice are abiotic. a process used to explore and describe patterns in nature. In a strictly observational study, the scientist does not have control over the conditions or variables at work in the system under study. The scientist reports what has happened without taking steps to intervene in the system. A characteristic of a subject that can vary from one subject to the next or over time. Can be approximated by adding the number of protons and the number of neutrons. Therefore the atomic number of lithium is 3.  Describes a property of matter in which particles tend to stick together.  Negatively charged subatomic particle that occupies shells surrounding the nucleus and has a mass that is so small it is considered to be zero. The basic unit of matter that cannot be further broken down without losing its unique properties. The most important strongly electronegative elements in biological systems are oxygen and nitrogen. Positive ions are referred to as cations. Negative ions are referred to as anions.  An attractive force generated by the interactions between ions of opposite charges. Anything that occupies space and has mass. Subatomic particle with a neutral charge that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit.  The word nucleus is used in two different contexts in the study of biology. Loosely defined, nucleus means "center" or "core."  Positively charged subatomic particle that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Biology is a vast subject divided into many branches or subdivisions representing areas of specialization. Branches of biology include: anatomy, biochemistry, ecology, evolution, genetics, immunology, physiology, and many more.  Component of a solution that is present in the smallest quantity and which dissolves in a solvent. Homogeneous mixtures of solvent and solute.  Component of a solution that is present in the greatest quantity and in which something else is dissolved.  The capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. An adjective that describes living organisms or their remains. Cells are fluid-filled spaces bound by a membrane. This module will introduce themes that re-occur throughout the study of biology.  Science as a process of inquiry Science as a driving force in society Structure determines function: (a) Structural hierarchy; (b) Emergent properties Living things are made of cells Flow of energy nteraction with the environment Reproduction and growth Evolution Interdependence of living organisms The themes we explored in this module will reappear again and again as we progress through the course. Before taking the quiz, review the recurrent themes and key terms presented in this module. When you are ready, you can check your understanding of this content by taking the “Themes in Biology” quiz below. Check your understanding of the following key terms that were discussed during this module: Throughout the study of biology, several themes emerge. As we progress through the course, we will highlight the lessons that help to illustrate these six themes: Living organisms maintain homeostasis. Organisms grow, develop, and reproduce. In this module, we will explore an overview of each of these themes separately. Matter is traditionally defined as anything that has mass and takes up space. Matter is reused and recycled in living systems. To live and grow, organisms and cells must take in (or absorb, or ingest) certain forms of matter. Any matter an organism needs but cannot make for itself is considered a nutrient for that organism. Not all matter can be used by an organism, which is why all living systems release other forms of matter. Consider the picture above. The matter in the wolf that is not absorbed or used for growth by the bear becomes waste. The bear excretes this waste in urine, in feces, and in its exhaled breath. The waste produced by one organism can provide nutrients to another. Food contains nutrients that are useful to humans. These nutrients take up space and can be weighed. Imagine a serving of breakfast cereal. You can weigh and measure the volume of its nutrients, and on food labels nutrient content (the amount of fat, carbohydrates, protein, etc.) is reported in grams. It is measured in units called calories. Matter, on the other hand, cycles within living systems. The waste might become nutrients for something else. All cells (or organisms) take in forms of matter called nutrients and release chemical waste products. It cannot be weighed and does not take up space, but it can be measured in terms of what it does The nutrients in a sandwich can be weighed on a scale. To learn more: Gretchen Daily and others, 1993. Food provides nutrients; we get the building blocks for our bodies from the food we consume. The leftovers are released as simple wastes to the environment. Let’s see if that is correct. Chemical waste products must be removed by organs like your liver, kidneys, and lungs. By studying nutrient cycles, we can appreciate the roles of algae and plants in making our air breathable. We learn how bacteria make soil fertile. Your trillions of cells are intimately dependent on each other for survival. If any one of your major organs were to suddenly fail, you might die very quickly. They provide your cells with vitamins, help keep out invaders, and may even influence your mood. An ecosystem consists of all the organisms living within a defined area along with the abiotic components of that particular environment. Within an ecosystem, organisms interact with each other in helpful and harmful ways. Others, however, play unique and essential roles that other organisms depend upon for their survival. Organisms detect and respond to external conditions. In response to threats and opportunities, they may move or change their activities. Over time, the trunks of trees strengthen when they are flexed by the wind. Animals, of course, respond to stimuli with a huge range of behaviors from the hibernation of bears to your own development of “goosebumps” on a chilly day. Why is this so important? Organisms react to these changes in a corrective fashion: they detect changes and do something to oppose them. When you catch a chill, your muscles may contract in rapid bursts (shivering), generating heat that warms you back up again. The ability or tendency of organisms and cells to maintain stable internal conditions is called homeostasis and is an important theme in biology. The term homeostasis comes from the Greek words homeo (same, alike) and stasis ( standing).  Structo is just a blob floating in the ocean, and it’s not functioning too well at the moment. Thanks for helping Structo... function. Environmental pressures have led (and continue to lead) to the evolution of organisms with a virtually infinite range of such combinations. In fact, one of the hottest areas of engineering right now is biomimicry: looking at natural solutions to problems and using similar approaches to build better technology. One of the earliest uses of this approach was the invention of Velcro (hook and loop attachment) by Swiss engineer Georges de Mestral. He was inspired by the burrs that got stuck in his dog’s fur! To learn more: Biomimicry You can see this in a family photograph: offspring resemble parents and siblings resemble each other. It also occurs over generations of time, not within a single lifetime. In the world today, organisms and cells always come from parents, and this is where they get their genetic information. It is also evident when we compare skeletons, kidneys, or hearts among animals. The second major idea of evolution is that of selection. Natural selection helps explain how groups of organisms become well-suited, or adapted, to their surroundings. Individuals are always a bit different from their parents and from each other, partly because of changes to their genes. These differences may be helpful or harmful to the individuals that inherit them. In nature, individuals often have very low odds of surviving to reproduce. Individuals with slightly harmful or even average characteristics are unlikely to make it, and those with traits that fit in very well with the local habitat will have the greatest chance to survive and reproduce. This sorting process goes on generation after generation. Each time only a tiny fraction of those born are well-suited and lucky enough to pass their genes along; the others die leaving no descendants. Harmful features that reduce reproduction become less common. Many experiments have demonstrated the effects of natural selection on populations in the laboratory and in nature. Evolution is a controversial topic among the general public in the United States and some other countries. Students or teachers may challenge evolution or shy away from it in the classroom. Why? Here are a few of the conflicts that can arise: These are deep issues that can’t be resolved simply. However, they do not imply any scientific disagreement about evolution. Some people may claim that evolution is somehow in dispute among scientists; they may argue that evolution is “just” a theory. Please recall that the scientific definition of the word “theory” is vastly different from its usage in popular culture. As a scientific theory , evolution holds a great deal of weight. It has been supported over and over again through many different kinds of observations and experiments. It helps explain a wide range of phenomena and suggests new ideas that can be applied to solve practical problems. The theory continues to be refined as new evidence comes in, but the major outlines of evolution seem likely to endure. In a science classroom we should focus on the direct evidence for evolution that we can observe in fossils and in organisms that are alive today. In fact, American public school teachers are legally required to teach about evolution from a scientific perspective and to refrain from teaching a particular religious account as if it were science. Does that mean science is at war with religion? No. Some are religious, some are not. The two fundamental tenets of evolution are shared ancestry and natural selection. You can see this in a family photograph: offspring resemble their parents and siblings resemble each other. Organisms and cells always come from parents, and this is where they get their genetic information. The second major idea of evolution is that of natural selection. Natural selection helps explain how groups of organisms become well-suited, or adapted, to their surroundings. Individuals are always a bit different from their parents and from each other, partly because of changes to their genes. These differences may be helpful or harmful to the individuals that inherit them. In nature, individuals often have very low odds of surviving to reproduce. Individuals with slightly harmful or even average characteristics might be less likely to make it, and those with traits that fit in very well with the local habitat will have the greatest chance to survive and reproduce. This sorting process goes on generation after generation. Each time only a tiny fraction of those born are well-suited and lucky enough to pass their genes along; the others die, leaving no descendants. Harmful features that reduce reproduction become less common. Many experiments have demonstrated the effects of natural selection on populations in the laboratory and in nature. All organisms grow and develop. Growth is just an increase in size. An individual’s pattern of development is partly determined by genetic instructions. You can think of genes as “recipes” for proteins. Chemical controls tell the “cooks” whether to make a given protein, or ignore its recipe and make something else. In this time-lapse video, a few days of development are sped up for your viewing pleasure. In the earliest frames you can see large cells dividing. With each division the individual cells get smaller. Toward the middle and end of the video, individual cells are much too tiny to see. Cells move from place to place, grow, die to create gaps, and divide to create bulges. Reproduction occurs when an individual organism passes on its genetic information to a newly independent organism, or offspring. All are subject to extreme events that bring death, such as being eaten by a predator. Reproduction maintains genetic information by passing it to new individuals. Living organisms detect and respond to changes in the conditions of their external environment. In response to threats and opportunities, organisms may move or change their activities. Over time, the trunks of trees strengthen when they are flexed by the wind. Animals, of course, respond to stimuli with a huge range of behaviors from the hibernation of bears to your own development of “goosebumps” on a chilly day. If its shape changes, it may lose function. The ability or tendency of organisms and cells to maintain stable internal conditions is called homeostasis. The term homeostasis comes from the Greek words homeo (same, alike) and stasis (standing). Environmental conditions can also affect cellular homeostasis. Organisms react to these changes in a corrective way: they detect changes and do something to oppose them. The process of shivering then generates heat that warms you back up again. As a result of this and other adjustments, your temperature is maintained close to 99 degrees F (Fahrenheit) [37 degrees C (Celsius)]. At this temperature, your enzymes work very efficiently. Homeostasis is an important theme in biology. All living systems use resources to maintain homeostasis. When cells fail to maintain homeostasis, disease results. Ultimately, if homeostasis is not restored, an organism will die. At levels from the individual to the biosphere, the various parts of living systems are interdependent. Your trillions of cells are intimately dependent on each other for survival. Your cells are specialized, and you exist because of a massive team effort from all these different cells. If any one of your major organs were to suddenly fail, you might die very quickly. They provide your cells with vitamins, help keep out invaders, and may even influence your mood.  An ecosystem consists of all the organisms living within a defined area along with the abiotic components of that particular environment. Within an ecosystem, organisms interact with each other in helpful and harmful ways. Others, however, play unique and essential roles that other organisms depend upon for their survival. To learn more: Gretchen Daily and others, 1993. The two are intimately related. Different materials have properties - such as strength, flexibility, and many more - that influence how they are used in cells and bodies. Consider a piece of wood. Depending on how it is shaped, it could be used as a spear, drinking cup, smoking pipe, or even a musical flute. An enzyme’s ability to function depends directly on its three-dimensional shape. If exposed to excessive heat or harsh chemical conditions, enzymes unravel and change in shape. The earthworm is quite obviously well-suited to burrowing: it is slimy, muscular, flexible, and cylindrical. Next time you get the chance, FEEL an earthworm. Pinch it carefully near the head with one hand, then rub your free forefinger against its belly. You’ll notice prickly hairs on the worm’s underside. And you’ll find that you only feel them when you move your finger toward the worm’s head: the hairs are set at an angle, gripping the soil to help the worm move forward through the earth. In fact, organisms are so well adapted to their environments that humans are now looking to them for inspiration. Today, a fast-growing field called biomimicry brings biologists together with engineers to develop new products based on solutions found in nature. One of the earliest products of this approach was the invention of Velcro (the hook and loop attachment) by Swiss engineer Georges de Mestral. He was inspired by the burrs that got stuck in his dog’s fur. To learn more, visit the Biomimicry Institute. Consider a piece of wood. Depending on how it is shaped, it could be used as a spear for hunting, a cup for drinking, a pipe for smoking, or even a flute for playing music. The wood also possesses unique properties that influence how it can be used. It would always be too heavy to lift off the ground. An enzyme’s ability to function depends directly on its three-dimensional shape. If exposed to excessive heat or harsh chemical conditions, enzymes unravel and change shape. The next time you get the chance, feel an earthworm. Pinch it carefully near the head with one hand, then rub your free forefinger against its belly. You’ll notice prickly hairs on the worm’s underside. And you’ll find that you only feel them when you move your finger toward the worm’s head: the hairs are set at an angle, enabling the worm to grip the soil to and move it forward through the earth. Environmental pressures have led (and continue to lead) to the evolution of organisms with a virtually infinite range of such combinations. We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. But before we begin, it is first necessary to consider what Biology actually is. INSERT Figure 1.1from UMUC along with caption. In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the most basic principles of Biology. You will explore the difference between living and non-living things in Module 2. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Lastly, we will learn about the Scientific Method in Module 5. As shown on the figure below, science can be broken down into two main branches - natural sciences and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science. It encompasses many related sub-branches (e.g. ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology) that study different aspects of living organisms. In addition to biology, the other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though science is broken down into branches and sub-branches of study, all of science is interconnected. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in the understanding of certain human behaviors, so biology is important for the social and behavioral sciences. Now that we have a better understanding of what biology is, it is next important to ask why we are interested in studying it. Why does it matter if we learn biology? We (humans) are living organisms, and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. Have you ever taken an antibiotic to help you get rid of an infection? That was the result of a lot of biological science research! Other scientists studied how these microorganisms live and have developed medications that will kill the microorganisms but not harm you. Do you know someone who has cancer? Biology helps to keep us well and is the foundation for modern medicine. Have you ever heard a news report about acid rain and wondered: “Is it really that big of a deal?” Ecologists (specialized biologists who study ecology) have observed what happens to the health of ecosystems when acid rain falls. They can tell you about the consequences in detail, and can even predict which ecosystems will be most affected based on the chemistry of the underlying rocks! Astrobiologists study conditions on other planets and design experiments to help answer those questions. In short, biology and science are all around us and inside us. This is an image of planet Earth taken from outer space. As you start to learn about biology, you will notice that there is a lot of chemistry involved! You will study metabolism in the fourth unit of this course. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. Another way to relate the topics in this course to one another is shown below in the Concept Map. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. But before we begin, it is first necessary to consider what Biology actually is. Metabolism:  You will study metabolism in this course. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. Another way to relate the topics in this course to one another is shown below in the Concept Map. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the most basic principles of Biology. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Lastly, we will learn about the Scientific Method. As shown on the figure below, science can be broken down into two main branches - natural sciences and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science. It encompasses many related sub-branches (e.g. ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology) that study different aspects of living organisms. In addition to biology, the other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though science is broken down into branches and sub-branches of study, all of science is interconnected. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in the understanding of certain human behaviors, so biology is important for the social and behavioral sciences. Now that we have a better understanding of what biology is, it is next important to ask why we are interested in studying it. Why does it matter if we learn biology? We (humans) are living organisms, and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. Have you ever taken an antibiotic to help you get rid of an infection? That was the result of a lot of biological science research! Other scientists studied how these microorganisms live and have developed medications that will kill the microorganisms but not harm you. Do you know someone who has cancer? Biology helps to keep us well and is the foundation for modern medicine. Have you ever heard a news report about acid rain and wondered: “Is it really that big of a deal?” Ecologists (specialized biologists who study ecology) have observed what happens to the health of ecosystems when acid rain falls. They can tell you about the consequences in detail and can even predict which ecosystems will be most affected based on the chemistry of the underlying rocks! Astrobiologists study conditions on other planets and design experiments to help answer those questions. In short, biology and science are all around us and inside us.  This biology course is built around several key concepts that provide unifying explanations for how and why structures are formed and processes occur in a biological system. Because it is not possible to cover the breadth of biology in one semester, an understanding of these key concepts will provide a basis for extending your knowledge to biology beyond the specific topics covered in this course. One of the major goals of the course therefore is for you to learn the fundamentals of the concepts and recognize how they can be applied in other contexts. This is an image of planet Earth taken from outer space. Biological Chemistry: As you start to learn about biology, you will notice that there is a lot of chemistry involved! All matter can be classified into one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Something is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time; in this sense, a dead human buried in a wooden coffin underground is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. 4. A virus consist of one or more cells. In fact, they didn’t even know that plants and animals are composed of cells! The invention and refinement of the microscope changed all that. We are aware that these living things interact with every large organism on Earth, cleanse the water we drink, and renew the air we breathe. In particular, we are aware that bacteria can cause disease: this was not fully demonstrated until the late 1800s! The earliest measures to control bacterial diseases involved sanitation: clean surgical techniques, water treatment, and sewage treatment. Once bacterial infections took hold, they were often fatal. Penicillin, the first antibiotic, was serendipitously discovered by Alexander Fleming in 1928. He had left some Petri dishes out too long and mold had grown on the bacterial medium. Looking closely, Fleming saw that bacteria did not grow well in a zone around the moldy spots. Following up on a hunch, he deliberately added mold to some plates seeded with bacteria and found that bacteria were killed near the mold colonies. By the mid-1940s, just in time to help wounded soldiers in World War II, scientists were able to mass-produce a drug derived from the mold. Antibiotics are substances that are produced by one type of organism (usually bacteria or mold) and used to kill or suppress other organisms (usually bacteria). Therefore penicillin does not harm our cells - only those of bacteria. This is a general feature of antibiotics. When taken in prescribed doses, antibiotics are usually harmless to humans. During and just after World War II, penicillin was touted as a wonder drug, and many believed the battle against pathogenic (harmful) bacteria would be won in a matter of years. However, the initial success of this antibiotic was relatively short-lived, as bacteria began to evolve resistance to the drug. In any group of bacteria, individuals can have variations in their genetic makeup that help them survive in the presence of specific antibiotic compounds. Over time, if the antibiotic is used, vulnerable types of bacteria die out and the “resistant” types of bacteria reproduce much better than average. Eventually most or all bacteria in the environment are resistant, making the antibiotic useless. Presently, we are facing a growing threat to human health; the overuse and misuse of antibiotics has led to the evolution of “superbugs” -- bacterial strains that are resistant to many different types of antibiotics. Such infections are very hard to treat, and can be deadly. Perhaps you have heard about a multiple drug resistant Staphylococcus (MSRA) that can be picked up in hospitals and can dissolve the skin and underlying muscle. One way to reduce the development of antibiotic resistance is to use antibiotics only when necessary, so that there are many antibiotic-free people and places in the environment. This makes it easier for vulnerable strains of bacteria to reproduce, and keeps these strains more common. Within a sick patient, however, the goal of antibiotic therapy is to keep reducing the numbers of harmful bacteria until your immune system can kill off the last (and probably most resistant) holdouts. Therefore it is important to take antibiotics at full dosage and to complete the round of treatment as directed, continuing until it is certain that your bacterial foes have been eliminated. We are not helpless against the rising tide of antibiotic resistance. All biotic (living) things: ALL four of the above conditions must be met (or have been met in the past); otherwise, that being classified is considered to be abiotic (non-living). They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction.  Indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. 2. Viruses sense and respond to changing environments. 3. As we ascend to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that do not appear in any of its component parts. The separated parts of an automobile amount to a heap of junk. Only properly assembled, with gas, the right key, and a human driver, does the car fulfill its function. Observe the following diagram Living things are highly organized and structured following a hierarchy that can be examined on a scale from small to large. Polymers are made by combining smaller units called monomers which are simpler macromolecules. Organisms are classified as prokaryotes or eukaryotes. The cells of prokaryotes are relatively small and simple; they do not have any clearly defined compartments inside of them. In most multicellular organisms, cells combine to make tissues, groups of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function. Organs are collections of tissues grouped together based on a common general function. Organs are present not only in higher level animals but also in plants. An organ system is a higher level of organization that consists of functionally related organs. Organisms are individual living entities that survive and reproduce as a unit. Many different populations live in any specific area. All of these populations can interact with each other in positive and negative ways, and together they form a community. An ecosystem consists of all the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic, non-living part of that environment. At the highest level of organization, the biosphere is the collection of all ecosystems on Earth. It is Earth’s habitable zone and includes land, soil, and rocks to a great depth in the Earth’s crust; water and ice; and the atmosphere to great height. In the introduction to this unit you read about different sub-disciplines of Biological Sciences. We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. Biologists are scientists who study living organisms. They study the bacteria that live in your digestive system and explore the reasons why these bacteria are critical to your health. They study mice and flies and yeast and plants and learn about how living organisms are alike, and how they are different. Different kinds of biologists study different things. Ecologists are biologists who specialize in studying the way that living organisms interact with their environments. They examine important issues such as acid rain and observe what happens to the health of living systems when acid rain falls. Understanding biology can help us understand ourselves and the environment around us. Biological research is constantly adding to our understanding of human health and disease, and often results in treatments that lead to longer, healthier, and more productive lives. Every day we are bombarded with information about health issues, new vaccines and medicines, ecological problems, and other issues related to biological research. This information comes at us from a myriad of diverse sources, including friends, healthcare providers, the media, your neighbors, and the Internet. This course is divided into 10 units. This unit begins by defining biology and characterizing its relationship to other fields of scientific study. It then elaborates on a few of the themes that emerge over and over throughout this course. Finally, in this unit you will explore the nature of science. This introduction represents the toolkit you’ll need to understand the rest of the course, and will enable you to create context for all the new information you will learn. Your instructor, though, may choose to add, omit, or reorganize this material to adapt the the course for the goals and objectives of your class. The diagram above represents the "Big Picture" of biology. It illustrates how the course is organized and depicts the relationships between the main topics you will learn about as you progress through the material. You will find that as you go, the material is telling a story. It is a story based on the research and collaboration of centuries of scientific thinkers. All living organisms reproduce, passing their genetic information from generation to generation. This results in a unity and diversity of all living organisms, because we all share a common ancestor. All matter, living and nonliving, exists within a delicate interconnected balance, and humans are just one part of this biosphere. This is a fascinating story and one that inspires a deep understanding and appreciation of the living world within us and around us. All living things grow, develop and reproduce. How genetic information is passed from one generation to the next is discussed in Unit 7: Classical Genetics. In Unit 9: Evolution, you will examine the process of evolution taking place within populations of organisms. This unit will explicitly link evolutionary change with the heritable characteristics you will learn about in Classical Genetics and Molecular Genetics. You will conclude your exploration of biology by learning about the interactions between groups of living organisms and their environments. Unit 10: Ecology discusses how humans are part of a living biosphere and how our actions, both intentional and inadvertent, have widespread consequences. As we ascend through this hierarchy to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that are not present in any of its component parts. The separated parts of the automobile amount to a heap of junk. Only when properly assembled, with gas, the right key, and a human driver, does the car fulfill its function, which is to transport us from place to place. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Click on the blue lines. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. These are the concepts and principles of biology you will learn about in this course.  This biology course is built around several key concepts that provide unifying explanations for how and why structures are formed and processes occur in a biological system. Because it is not possible to cover the breadth of biology in one semester, an understanding of these key concepts will provide a basis for extending your knowledge to biology beyond the specific topics covered in this course. One of the major goals of the course therefore is for you to learn the fundamentals of the concepts and recognize how they can be applied in other contexts.  You will study metabolism in this course. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. Another way to relate the topics in this course to one another is shown below in the Concept Map. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the most basic principles of Biology. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Lastly, we will learn about the Scientific Method. This is an image of planet Earth taken from outer space. Biological Chemistry: As you start to learn about biology, you will notice that there is a lot of chemistry involved! Metabolism: We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. Biologists study living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. Ecologists are biologists who specialize in studying the way that living organisms interact with their environments. They examine important issues such as acid rain and observe what happens to the health of living systems when acid rain falls. Understanding biology can help us understand ourselves and the environment around us. Biological research is constantly adding to our understanding of human health and disease and often results in treatments that lead to longer, healthier, and more productive lives. Every day we are bombarded with information about health issues, new vaccines and medicines, ecological problems, and other issues related to biological research. This information comes at us from a myriad of diverse sources, including friends, healthcare providers, the media, your neighbors, and the internet. Our goals for this course are for learners to understand the basic process of scientific inquiry and be able to critically evaluate information that claims to be “scientific.” We aim for learners to become scientifically literate participants in social discussions and policy debates on issues such as: personal health and medicine; opportunities and challenges posed by new medical technologies; and, human effects on the environment. We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. Before we begin, we should consider what biology actually is. Biologists study living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. The subject is vast and includes topics as diverse as acid rain, evolution, and genetically modified foods. Human beings are living organisms and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. In this way, biology helps to keep us well and is the foundation for modern medicine. Biology also helps answer questions about the world around us. Ecologists are biologists who specialize in studying the way that living organisms interact with their environments. They examine important issues such as acid rain and observe what happens to the health of living systems when acid rain falls. In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the basic principles of biology. First you will explore the difference between living and non-living things. You will begin to see how all living organisms are built from smaller components that combine to form larger more complex systems. You will also be introduced to the common themes of biology, concepts that appear over and over again throughout the course. Many of these ideas will be applied in a final section exploring the use – and misuse – of antibiotics. The purpose of this course introduction is to prepare you conceptually and technically for the course. Since you may not have experienced an online course like this before, we will start with a short section describing the course and offer some learning strategies that will help you use the materials most efficiently. Finally, we will discuss what biology is all about — the "big picture" — our framework for exploring the relationship between the themes in biological research and the fundamental concepts and principles included in this course. Information in this course is organized into units. Each unit begins with an introduction that orients you toward the major themes you’ll explore in that section. The unit introduction will also show you how the content fits into the course as a whole. Each unit consists of several modules. Modules are like chapters in a book, and when you start a new module, you will see the list of learning outcomes you will achieve after completing that section of the course. Each module consists of several pages designed to help you achieve the learning outcomes. The introduction highlights what you will learn and how it relates to the big picture. The following pages make up the informational “meat” of the module. This explanatory content consists of short passages of text with information, examples, images, and explanations. As you work through the content, you will have many opportunities to practice what you are learning. The practice usually takes one of two forms: Directed feedback during these learning activities will help you stay on track as you assimilate new information. After completing a module, you will have a chance to demonstrate what you learned by taking a graded quiz. The module quizzes will assess and reinforce your learning as you progress through the unit. When you complete all the modules in a unit, you can participate in a “My Response” activity, where you will assess your own understanding of the unit content. After reflecting on your ability to achieve the learning objectives, you will have a chance to submit questions to your instructor, and then you will conclude your activities with a unit quiz. You can navigate through this course using the navigation bar at the top of the screen, the course syllabus, the course outline, and the page number box. All are accessible on any page in the course. All matter can be classified into one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Something is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within or made by a living organism is biotic. 4. A virus consist of one or more cells. All biotic (living) things: Many nonliving things might show one or even up to three of the above characteristics. ALL four of the above conditions must be met (or have been met in the past) to consider an item living or biotic; otherwise, the item is considered to be abiotic (non-living). They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction.  Indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. 2. Viruses sense and respond to changing environments. 3. [Production Note: Alternative display for consideration.] Biological Macromolecules: Metabolism: In this unit we will focus on the ways different types of cells reproduce themselves. This unit will set the foundation for understanding concepts in heredity and genetics. Classical Genetics: This unit discusses how genetic information is passed from one generation to the next. Molecular Genetics: Evolution: In this unit, we will examine the process of evolution, explicitly linking evolutionary change with the heritable characteristics we learned about in the previous the Classical Genetics and Molecular Genetics units. Ecology: Living organisms are able to maintain internal stability despite environmental changes through a process called homeostasis. In the Ecology unit, we will explore the complex ways in which living organisms interact with each other and their environment. The course is divided into 10 units. In this first unit of the course, we set the foundation upon which the rest of the course is built. We define biology and its relationship to other fields of scientific study. Introduction to Chemistry: Finally we will explore an important property that has significant effects on living systems: pH.. Metabolism: In this unit we will focus on the ways different types of cells reproduce themselves. This unit will set the foundation for understanding concepts in heredity and genetics. Classical Genetics: This unit discusses how genetic information is passed from one generation to the next. Molecular Genetics: Evolution: In this unit, we will examine the process of evolution, explicitly linking evolutionary change with the heritable characteristics we learned about in the Classical and Molecular Genetics units. Ecology: Living organisms are able to maintain internal stability despite environmental changes through a process called homeostasis. In the Ecology unit, we will explore the complex ways in which living organisms interact with each other and their environment. The course is divided into 10 units. In this first unit of the course, we set the foundation upon which the rest of the course is built. We define biology and its relationship to other fields of scientific study. Introduction to Chemistry: Finally we will explore an important property that has significant effects on living systems: pH. Biological Macromolecules: Learning objectives As we ascend through this hierarchy to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that are not present in any of its component parts. The separated parts of the automobile amount to a heap of junk. Only when properly assembled, with gas, the right key, and a human driver, does the car fulfill its function, which is to transport us from place to place. Activity #4 (new) DIGT: inline_first_emergent_property_level Observe the following diagram. All living things consist of smaller parts that are organized in a hierarchical way. The term “hierarchy” (adjective: hierarchical) means that smaller and simpler levels are nested or contained within larger, more complex levels. Living things are highly organized and structured at levels that can be examined on a scale from small to large. It senses and responds to changes in the environment. There are two main types of cells: prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The cells of prokaryotes are relatively small and simple; they do not have any clearly defined compartments inside of them. Organisms too small to be seen with the naked eye are called microorganisms. Other organisms consist of many cells working together. These multicellular organisms include animals, land plants, and most fungi. Most multicellular organisms have cells that are specialized to carry out specific functions. Tissues are formed when many cells work together to fulfill the same detailed function. Organs are collections of tissues that work together to carry out a more general function. Organs are present not only in most animals but also in plants. An organ system is a higher level of organization that consists of functionally related organs. It is made up of organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Each of the organs, in turn, is made of more specific tissues. The hierarchical organization of living systems continues beyond single organisms. Many different populations living in the same area together form a community. Continuing with the case in point, the forest with pine trees includes populations of flowers, mammals, birds, insects, fungi, and bacteria, all of which can interact. These interacting populations make up a community. An ecosystem consists of all the living things in an area plus the abiotic or non-living parts of that environment. The pine forest ecosystem includes not just plants, animals, and microorganisms but also rocks, water, temperature changes, air chemistry, and other abiotic factors that interact with living organisms in the area. Finally, the highest level of organization in living systems is the biosphere, which is the collection of all ecosystems on Earth. The biosphere includes all habitable zones on the Earth, including water and ice; land, soil, and rocks to a great depth in the Earth’s crust; and the atmosphere to great height. In fact, they didn’t even know that plants and animals are composed of cells. The invention and refinement of the microscope changed all that. The bacteria that live on and in you are often critically important to your own health and well being. Bacteria have mutually beneficial relationships with every large organism on Earth and they also cleanse the water we drink and renew the air we breathe. While bacteria can be invaluable partners in the quest for healthy living, it is also well known that bacteria cause disease. Interestingly, this fact was not fully demonstrated until the late 1800s. The earliest measures taken to control bacterial diseases involved improving sanitation using procedures such as sterile surgical techniques, water purification, and sewage treatment. While these strategies helped reduce infections caused by bacteria, it didn’t change the fact that once bacterial infections took hold, they were often fatal. In 1928, Alexander Fleming serendipitously discovered the first antibiotic, Penicillin. Fleming was studying bacteria in his lab and was growing different cultures on Petri dishes. He wasn’t very tidy and had accidentally forgotten to clean some Petri dishes before leaving his lab for a monthlong vacation. When Fleming returned to the lab, he noticed that a mold had grown on one of the plates. Looking closely, Fleming saw that his bacteria had not grown well in a zone surrounding the moldy spots. Following up on a hunch, he deliberately added mold to some Petri dishes seeded with bacteria and found that all bacteria were killed near the mold colonies. By the mid-1940s, just in time to help wounded soldiers in World War II, scientists were able to mass-produce a drug derived from the mold discovered by Fleming. Fleming had discovered the first antibiotic. Antibiotics are substances that are produced by one type of organism (usually bacteria or mold) and used to kill or suppress other organisms (usually bacteria). Therefore, penicillin does not harm our cells — only those of bacteria. This is a general feature of antibiotics. When taken in prescribed doses, antibiotics are usually harmless to humans. During and just after World War II, penicillin was touted as a wonder drug, and many believed the battle against pathogenic (harmful) bacteria would be won in a matter of years. However, the initial success of this antibiotic was relatively short-lived, as bacteria began to evolve resistance to the drug. In any group of bacteria, individuals can have variations in their genetic makeup that help them survive in the presence of specific antibiotic compounds. Over time, if the antibiotic is used, vulnerable types of bacteria die out and the “resistant” types of bacteria reproduce much better than average. Eventually most or all bacteria in the environment are resistant, making the antibiotic useless. Presently, we are facing a growing threat to human health; the overuse and misuse of antibiotics has led to the evolution of “superbugs” — bacterial strains that are resistant to many different types of antibiotics. Such infections are very hard to treat, and can be deadly. It has evolved a resistance to the antibiotic methycillin. One way to reduce the development of antibiotic resistance is to use antibiotics only when necessary, so that there are many antibiotic-free people and places in the environment. This makes it easier for vulnerable strains of bacteria to reproduce, and keeps these strains more common. Within a sick patient, however, the goal of antibiotic therapy is to keep reducing the numbers of harmful bacteria until your immune system can kill off the last (and probably most resistant) holdouts. Therefore it is important to take antibiotics at full dosage and to complete the round of treatment as directed, continuing until it is certain that your bacterial foes have been eliminated. We are not helpless against the rising tide of antibiotic resistance. The subject is vast and includes topics as diverse as acid rain, evolution, and genetically modified foods. 2. Viruses sense and respond to changing environments. 3. 4. A virus consist of one or more cells. There are four distinct qualities that are used to determine whether or not something is alive. To be considered alive, something must: Sense and respond to changing environments. Consist of one or more cells. Nonliving things can show several of these characteristics. However, if even one of these conditions is not met (rock crystals do not consist of cells), the object in question cannot be considered alive. Matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space. All matter can be classified in one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Matter is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. Otherwise, that being classified is considered to be abiotic, or non-living. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction.  Indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. The subject is vast and includes topics as diverse as acid rain, evolution, and genetically modified foods. 2. Living organisms sense and respond to changing environments. 3. 4. Living Organisms consist of one or more cells. There are four distinct qualities that are used to determine whether or not something is alive. To be considered alive, something must: Sense and respond to changing environments. Consist of one or more cells. Nonliving things can show several of these characteristics. However, if even one of these conditions is not met (rock crystals do not consist of cells), the object in question cannot be considered alive. Matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space. All matter can be classified in one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Matter is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. Otherwise, that being classified is considered to be abiotic, or non-living. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. In this activity we will explore characteristics of viruses that resemble living organisms. Then, you indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. The subject is vast and includes topics as diverse as acid rain, evolution, and genetically modified foods. There are five distinct qualities used to determine whether or not something is (or was) alive. A living organism is something that displays all these qualities. To be considered alive, something must:  Be made of materials organized in a hierarchical pattern. Sense and respond to changing environments and maintain internal stability, or homeostasis. Evolve. Because of this, living organisms are often identified based on whether or not they are made of cells. Nonliving things can show several of these characteristics. Matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space. All matter can be classified in one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (nonliving). Matter is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made by, a biotic organism is biotic. Otherwise, the matter being classified is considered to be abiotic, or nonliving. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. In this activity we will explore characteristics of viruses that resemble living organisms. Then, you indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. 2. Living organisms sense and respond to changing environments. 3. 4. Living Organisms consist of one or more cells. Have you ever gotten sick with the flu and said something like, “I’ve come down with a bug,” or “I’ve got the flu bug”? In fact, the flu (short for influenza) is not really caused by a “bug” at all. It is caused by a virus, and there is some controversy in the scientific community regarding whether or not viruses are alive. But what are viruses, really? And how would you determine whether or not they are alive? In this lesson, you’ll learn more about what viruses are, so you can figure out if they are actually alive. The genetic information is surrounded by a protein coat called a capsid. Viruses are tiny particles and they lack the machinery necessary for growth and reproduction. So are viruses alive? There is much debate on the subject. Complete the following activity and draw your own conclusions. In this activity we will explore the characteristics of viruses. Observe the following diagram. All living things consist of smaller parts that are organized in a hierarchical way. Living things are highly organized and structured, following a hierarchy that can be examined on a scale from small to large. Polymers are made by combining smaller units called monomers, which are simpler macromolecules. There are two main types of cells: prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The cells of prokaryotes are relatively small and simple; they do not have any clearly defined compartments inside of them. Other organisms consist of many cells working together. These multicellular organisms include animals, land plants, and most fungi. Most multicellular organisms have cells that are specialized to carry out specific functions. Tissues are formed when many different kinds of cells work together to fulfill the same detailed function. Organs are collections of tissues that work together to carry out a common general function. Organs are present not only in higher level animals but also in plants. An organ system is a higher level of organization that consists of functionally related organs. Mammals have many organ systems. Organisms are individual living entities that survive and reproduce as a unit. It is made up of organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Each of the organs, in turn, is made of more specific tissues. The hierarchical organization of living systems continues beyond single organisms. As you know, many different populations can live in any specific area. All of these populations can interact with each other in positive and negative ways, and together they form a community. These interacting populations make up a community. An ecosystem consists of all the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic, or nonliving, parts of that environment. The pine forest ecosystem includes not just plants, animals, and microbes but also rocks, water, temperature changes, air chemistry, and other abiotic factors that interact with living organisms in the area. Finally, the highest level of organization in living systems is the biosphere, which is the collection of all ecosystems on Earth. The biosphere includes all habitable zones on the planet, including land, soil, and rocks to a great depth in the Earth’s crust; water and ice; and the atmosphere to a great height. As we ascend to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that do not appear in any of its component parts. Think about a photograph. A photograph will show a composition conveying a message. Can you explain that composition based only on the tiny pixels (dots) that make up the image? In the next module, you will learn about several themes that emerge when studying living systems. These themes will appear over and over throughout this course. But before moving onto the next module, take some time to review the content you’ve learned so far. You can start by making sure you’re comfortable with the key terms listed below. When you are ready, you can check your understanding of this module by taking the “Introduction to Biology” quiz. Biology is a subject full of new vocabulary. Sometimes people studying biology feel like they are learning a new language, and they almost are. Check your understanding of the following key terms that were discussed during this module: This course is a brief introduction to the principles of biology. In this section, you will learn what is biology and why it matters. We will start by distinquishing living from non-living things. All matter can be classified into one of two groups: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Something is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time; in this sense, a deceased individual buried in a wooden coffin underground is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. All biotic (living) things: If any one of the above conditions are not met, that being classified is considered to be abiotic (non-living) . . . Welcome to OLI’s Introduction to Biological Principles! We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. But before we begin, it is first necessary to consider what Biology actually is. As shown on the figure below, science can be broken down into two main branches - natural sciences and social and behavioral sciences. Biology is a branch of natural sciences the encompasses all of the related sub-branches (e.g. ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology) that all study different aspects of living organisms. The other branch of natural sciences is the physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though science is broken down into branches and sub-branches of study all of science is interconnected. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aide in the understanding of certain behaviors, so biology is important for the social and behavioral sciences. Now that we have a better understanding of what biology is, it is next important to ask why we are interested in studying it. Why does it matter if we learn biology? This lies in the fact that we (humans) are living organisms, and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. Have you ever been sick with an infection and told you needed to take an antibiotic to help you get better? Other scientists have studied how these microorganisms live so that medications could be developed that will kill the microorganisms but not harm you. Biology helps to keep us well. Have you ever heard a news report about acid rain and wondered is it really that big of a deal? There are scientists who study ecology and are investigating what happens to the health of eco-systems when acid rain falls. There are scientists who study astrobiology to help answer those questions. Do you know someone who has cancer? In short, biology and science are all around us. DIDIGETTHIS: inline_what-is-biology Now that you have a better understanding of what Biology is, we are next going to consider what is the difference between living and non-living things. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Lastly, we will discuss the Scientific Method which is the foundation of scientific inquiry and exploration.  Development of this course page is in progress. Please check back later. Science is a powerful tool used to understand the natural world. It is the process that has resulted in the knowledge we are exploring in this course. However, the process of science does have limitations. In other words, there are some questions that science cannot be used to answer. It also cannot be used to make moral or aesthetic judgments. While questions of these types may be important for humans to explore, the process of science cannot be used to study them. In this module, the process of science will be discussed in more detail. Then you will learn about how to design a quality scientific experiment. Finally, you will have the opportunity to practice identifying examples of science and to compare those to examples of pseudoscience, or things that claim to be scientific, but are not. Science deals with testable knowledge about physical phenomena in the universe. The goal of science is to understand how the universe works. Biology focuses on understanding living things. To gain knowledge about nature and physical phenomena, scientists use a particular approach called “scientific inquiry.” Scientific inquiry is the best approach we have to understanding the natural world and predicting natural phenomena. Evidence for this claim can be found in the successes of science-based technologies. Prior to the 1700s, most medical practices were based on folk traditions or on ideas promoted by religious leaders. Some of these prescientific remedies worked, but the process for discovering new treatments was a slow and haphazard system of trial and error. Ineffective treatments were often accepted simply because there was no clear procedure for evaluating them. Today, with science-based medicine and public health practices, we have gained unprecedented control over threats to our health. Scientific inquiry has not displaced faith, intuition, and dreams. These traditions and ways of knowing have emotional value and provide moral guidance to many people. But hunches, feelings, deep convictions, old traditions, or dreams cannot be accepted directly as scientifically valid. Instead, science limits itself to ideas that can be tested through verifiable observations. Supernatural claims that events are caused by ghosts, devils, God, or other spiritual entities cannot be tested in this way. The rest of this module will focus on the methods of scientific inquiry. Science often involves making observations and developing hypotheses. Experiments and/or further observations are often used to test the hypotheses, and the data gathered are carefully interpreted. Methods and results are then communicated to other scientists within peer-reviewed scientific journals. A scientific experiment is a carefully organized procedure in which the scientist intervenes in a system to change something, then observes the result of the change. Scientific inquiry often involves doing experiments, though not always. While this research may not be experimental, it is scientific: it involves careful and verifiable observation of the natural world. The same scientist might then treat some of the ladybugs with a hormone hypothesized to trigger mating and observe whether these ladybugs mated sooner or more often than untreated ones. This would qualify as an experiment because the scientist is now making a change in the system and observing the effects. Overall, scientific fields can be broken down into two main branches: natural sciences, and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science that includes many related sub-branches, such as ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology. Each sub-branch of biology examines different aspects of living organisms. Other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though scientific knowledge is broken into branches and sub-branches of study, the knowledge gained from the various scientific disciplines is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so the science of chemistry is important to understand the science of biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in understanding the human behaviors studied in the social and behavioral sciences. The rest of this module will focus on the methods of scientific inquiry. Contrary to many science textbooks, there is no single, universal scientific method. Scientists apply many methods to their research and there is no single, correct sequence of scientific activities. Some types of research require hypothesis testing and strict, controlled laboratory conditions. Other types of research describe and categorize organisms living in an area and the types of habitats they prefer. The type of research being conducted by a scientist will determine research design, the methods and tools used to gather and analyze data, and the ability of scientists to generalize their findings beyond their study. Often this means scientists will make observations before defining the problem or forming a hypothesis! A scientific experiment is a carefully organized procedure in which the scientist intervenes in a system to change something, and then observes the result of the change. Scientific inquiry often involves doing experiments, though not always. While this research may not be experimental, it is scientific: it involves careful and verifiable observation of the natural world. The same scientist might then treat some of the ladybugs with a hormone hypothesized to trigger mating and observe whether these ladybugs mated sooner or more often than untreated ones. This would qualify as an experiment because the scientist is now making a change in the system and observing the effects. Once a scientist has made a significant discovery or has gathered data to enhance what is already known, that scientist will communicate these findings by publishing their work in a peer-reviewed journal. Peer review is considered the hallmark of scientific communication. Before a paper is published, it is read and critiqued by other scientists. Peer review is one way scientific information is scrutinized before it is accepted as a part of mainstream science. When conducting scientific experiments, researchers develop hypotheses to guide experimental design. A hypothesis offers a testable and falsifiable explanation of observations. She might then propose a possible explanation for this observation: “cold weather causes maple trees to lose their leaves in the fall.” This statement is testable. The scientist could grow maple trees in a warm enclosed environment such as a greenhouse and see if their leaves still dropped in the fall. The hypothesis is also falsifiable. If the leaves still dropped in the warm environment, then clearly temperature was not the main factor in causing maple leaves to drop in autumn. The experimental group receives the vaccine, but how can we know if the vaccine made a difference? For this, we need an otherwise similar control group that does not get the treatment. We can then compare the 2 groups and determine if the vaccine made a difference. However, the control group cannot get “nothing.” Scientific studies have shown that the “placebo effect” can alter experimental results. When individuals are told that they are or are not being treated, this knowledge often alters their actions or their emotions - which can alter the results of the experiment. Moreover, if the doctor knows which group a patient is in, this can also bias the results of the experiment. Subconscious non-verbal cues can alter the patient’s experience and therefore the results of the experiment. Therefore, many clinical studies are “double blind” where neither the doctor nor the patient knows which group the patient is in until all experimental results have been collected. In the activity below, you can practice recognizing scientific hypotheses. As you consider each statement, try to think as a scientist would: can I test this hypothesis with observations or experiments? Is the statement falsifiable? In other words, is it possible to gather evidence that clearly indicates that the statement is not true? If the answer is “no,” the statement is not a valid scientific hypothesis. Determine whether the following statement is a scientific hypothesis. Throughout the rest of this module, we examine the scientific process by discussing an actual scientific experiment conducted by researchers at the University of Washington to investigate whether a vaccine may reduce the incidence of the Human Papillomavirus Virus (HPV). The experimental process and results were published in an article titled, "A controlled trial of a human papillomavirus type 16 vaccine" [1] , available for viewing online at the National Institutes of Health's online database of publications: PubMed.gov Preliminary observations made by the researchers who conducted the HPV experiment are listed below: Hypothesis: Researchers have developed a potential vaccine against HPV and want to test it. Experiment: The scientists will test this hypothesis by separating 2392 young women into 2 groups: the control group and the experimental group. The control group(s) receives no special treatment, or the treatment that is currently most common. The results from this group give the scientist a base-line reading of what normally occurs. The experimental group(s) is the group that will receive the new treatment. The results of this group will be compared to the results of the control group so that a judgment can be made. When conducting scientific experiments, researchers develop hypotheses to guide experimental design. A hypothesis offers a testable and falsifiable explanation of observations. She might then propose a possible explanation for this observation: “cold weather causes maple trees to lose their leaves in the fall.” This statement is testable. The scientist could grow maple trees in a warm enclosed environment such as a greenhouse and see if their leaves still dropped in the fall. The hypothesis is also falsifiable. If the leaves still dropped in the warm environment, then clearly temperature was not the main factor in causing maple leaves to drop in autumn. In the activity below, you can practice recognizing scientific hypotheses. As you consider each statement, try to think as a scientist would: can I test this hypothesis with observations or experiments? Is the statement falsifiable? In other words, is it possible to gather evidence that clearly indicates that the statement is not true? If the answer is “no,” the statement is not a valid scientific hypothesis. Determine whether each following statement is a scientific hypothesis. Throughout the rest of this module, we examine the scientific process by discussing an actual scientific experiment conducted by researchers at the University of Washington to investigate whether a vaccine may reduce the incidence of the human papillomavirus (HPV). The experimental process and results were published in an article titled, "A controlled trial of a human papillomavirus type 16 vaccine" [1] , available for viewing online at the National Institutes of Health's online database of publications: PubMed.gov Preliminary observations made by the researchers who conducted the HPV experiment are listed below: Researchers have developed a potential vaccine against HPV and want to test it. You’ve successfully identified a hypothesis for the University of Washington’s study on HPV: People who get the HPV vaccine will not get HPV. The next step is to design an experiment that will test this hypothesis. There are several important factors to consider when designing a scientific experiment. First, scientific experiments must have an experimental group. This is the group that receives the experimental treatment necessary to address the hypothesis. The experimental group receives the vaccine, but how can we know if the vaccine made a difference? Many things may change HPV infection rates in a group of people over time. To clearly show that the vaccine was effective in helping the experimental group, we need to include in our study an otherwise similar control group that does not get the treatment. We can then compare the two groups and determine if the vaccine made a difference. The control group shows us what happens in the absence of the factor under study. However, the control group cannot get “nothing.” Instead, the control group often receives a placebo. A placebo is a procedure that has no expected therapeutic effect — such as giving a person a sugar pill or a shot containing only plain saline solution with no drug. Scientific studies have shown that the “placebo effect” can alter experimental results because when individuals are told that they are or are not being treated, this knowledge can alter their actions or their emotions, which can then alter the results of the experiment. Moreover, if the doctor knows which group a patient is in, this can also influence the results of the experiment. These errors can then alter the patient’s experience and change the results of the experiment. Therefore, many clinical studies are “double blind.” In these studies, neither the doctor nor the patient knows which group the patient is in until all experimental results have been collected. Both placebo treatments and double-blind procedures are designed to prevent bias. Bias is any systematic error that makes a particular experimental outcome more or less likely. Errors can happen in any experiment: people make mistakes in measurement, instruments fail, computer glitches can alter data. But most such errors are random and don’t favor one outcome over another. Patients’ belief in a treatment can make it more likely to appear to “work.” Placebos and double-blind procedures are used to level the playing field so that both groups of study subjects are treated equally and share similar beliefs about their treatment. The scientists who are researching the effectiveness of the HPV vaccine will test their hypothesis by separating 2,392 young women into two groups: the control group and the experimental group. Answer the following questions about these two groups. A variable is a characteristic of a subject (in this case, of a person in the study) that can vary over time or among individuals. Ideally, only one variable is different between the control group and the experimental group in a scientific experiment. Otherwise, the researchers will not be able to determine which variable caused any differences seen in the results. If, at the end of the experiment, the control group had a higher rate of HPV infection, could you confidently determine why? Maybe the experimental subjects were protected by the vaccine, but maybe they were protected by their low level of sexual contact. To avoid this situation, experimenters make sure that their subject groups are as similar as possible in all variables except for the variable that is being tested in the experiment. This variable, or factor, will be deliberately changed in the experimental group. The one variable that is different between the two groups is called the independent variable. An independent variable is known or hypothesized to cause some outcome. Imagine an educational researcher investigating the effectiveness of a new teaching strategy in a classroom. The experimental group receives the new teaching strategy, while the control group receives the traditional strategy. It is the teaching strategy that is the independent variable in this scenario. In an experiment, the independent variable is the variable that the scientist deliberately changes or imposes on the subjects. Dependent variables are known or hypothesized consequences; they are the effects that result from changes or differences in an independent variable. In an experiment, the dependent variables are those that the scientist measures before, during, and particularly at the end of the experiment to see if they have changed as expected. The dependent variable must be stated so that it is clear how it will be observed or measured. Rather than comparing “learning” among students (which is a vague and difficult to measure concept), an educational researcher might choose to compare test scores, which are very specific and easy to measure. Other variables must be kept as similar as possible between the study groups and are called control variables. To avoid this problem, a good study will be set up so that each group contains students with a similar age profile. In a well-designed educational research study, student age will be a controlled variable, along with other possibly-important factors like gender, past educational achievement, and pre-existing knowledge of the subject area.  After the experiment is completed, results are compiled and interpreted. This involves the measurement of the dependent variable. In the case of our HPV experiment, remember, the dependent variable is the rate of HPV infection. Although the HPV study suggests that the vaccine protects against infection by HPV, is the finding significant? A convincing study will rule out “luck” (random chance) as an explanation for the results. Strong results are said to be significant: very unlikely to occur by chance or random events. Whether the outcome is significant often depends on the size of study; the larger the number of individuals enrolled, the more convincing the results are likely to be. In the control group, 2 in 5 of the women became infected. In the experimental group, 0 in 5 were infected. At first you might think this proves the vaccine’s effectiveness, but it is NOT a convincing or significant result. Why not? Random events could easily explain the difference between the groups. They therefore stood no chance of acquiring HPV. The vaccine might appear to work, but a skeptical reader could account for the results by proposing many other scenarios. However, imagine if the same study were done with 10,000 women, and the infection rates were 2,000 of 5,000 in the control group and zero of 5,000 in the experimental group. Random events would be spread out among a very large group of people in this study; on average, the two big groups should have similar sexual behavior and other factors influencing infection rates. If there is a big difference at the end of the study, it is very unlikely that this result occurred by random chance. Statistical analyses did support the significance of the HPV vaccine result. After the results are interpreted and conclusions are drawn, researchers often return to their work and begin asking further questions. In this way, scientific inquiry is a powerful tool for exploration.  Now that you have a pretty good idea about the process of science, you’ll have a chance to identify examples of science and compare those to examples of pseudoscience. Pseudoscience is any claim that purports or pretends to be scientific in nature, but does not actually have the characteristics of true scientific inquiry. Pseudoscientific ideas often involve the supernatural. Sometimes they involve claims about forces or processes that cannot be measured using traditional tools or instruments employed by scientists. Finally, pseudoscientific claims are often quite dramatic. They are “amazing” ideas that would seem strange or unlikely to most scientists working in a related field. The clearest line separating pseudoscience from “real” science is publication in peer-reviewed scientific journals. These are publications, usually run by scientific societies or academic publishing companies, in which scientists publish their findings according to a well-established system of oversight. Before it gets published in such a journal, a piece of research is carefully reviewed by two or more researchers in the same field of study. The methods and logic of the paper are evaluated carefully, and if it makes bold or unusual claims, the study is subject to especially close scrutiny. Reviewers and editors may demand not just rewrites, but also additional evidence if a claim is weakly supported. Truly scientific research is published in reputable peer-reviewed journals. These journals exclude pseudoscience rigorously. If you hear that some idea is “scientifically proven,” check the source to see if there’s any reference to a scientific journal. Track down the article to see if it really supports the claim. Finally, double check to make sure that the publication is a respected peer-reviewed journal. One way to get this information is to ask a scientist at a research university, consult with a librarian, or do a careful Internet search. Your ability to distinguish between science and pseudoscience will help you be a scientifically literate citizen. Science is a process that helps us to understand how the natural world works. When we use the term “natural” in this context, we mean all that can be observed with our senses or with instruments that extend our senses. The “natural” world studied by science can be reliably observed and measured, from the far reaches of outer space to the man-made chemicals in our air and water. This module will examine the process of science and explore how science has led to an increased understanding of living organisms. Overall, scientific fields can be broken down into two main branches: natural sciences, and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science that includes many related sub-branches, such as ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology. Each sub-branch of biology examines different aspects of living organisms. Other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though scientific knowledge is broken into branches and sub-branches of study, the knowledge gained from the various scientific disciplines is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so the science of chemistry is important to understand the science of biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in understanding the human behaviors studied in the social and behavioral sciences. When we use the term “natural” in this context, we mean all that can be observed with our senses or with instruments that extend our senses. Although there are many fields or disciplines within science, such as astronomy, biology, chemistry and physics, there are common activities in which scientists in all fields engage in order to explore and test natural phenomena. These activities include observation, measurement, comparison, predicting and hypothesizing, creating ideas and conceptual tools, and constructing explanations. However, some people have moral objections to this type of research because one line of stem cells comes from human embryos. Human embryonic stem cells (HESCs) are harvested within a first few days of an embryos development. A second type of non-embryonic stem cells have also been used in scientific research – these are called induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from adult tissues. Unlike HESCs, isolating and producing iPSCs from adult stem cells in a lab setting is challenging and methods for doing so are still undergoing investigation. In 2001, President George W. Bush instituted strict guidelines for federal funding of scientific research on hESCs. The policy slowed hESC research but catalyzed the discovery of iPSCsfrom adult cells. In 2009, President Barack Obama signed an executive order revoking Bush’s guidelines, which allowed scientists once again to pursue federal funding for research on hESCs, but only cell lines derived from unused embryos from fertility clinics. Science is theory-laden. Theories and laws play a central role in the interpretation of new observations or discoveries. Scientific laws describe consistent relationships or patterns in nature. Scientific theories differ from colloquial or “everyday” theories. Scientific theories are well-supported explanations of natural phenomenon based on large bodies of empirical evidence. Everyday (colloquial) theories are most often based on a few untested personal experiences, anecdotal stories and legends. Last, both scientific laws and theories are widely accepted by scientists and change in light of new evidence. This means science and scientific knowledge is tentative but durable. Though reliable and durable, scientific theories and laws are subject to change in light of new data, and thus, are never absolute or static. When new discoveries are made, or additional data are gathered, scientific explanations change to reflect this new knowledge. Often, new discoveries are made possible by advances in thinking and technology. To gain knowledge about nature and physical phenomena, scientists use a particular approach called “scientific inquiry.” Scientific inquiry is the best approach we have to understanding the natural world and predicting natural phenomena. Evidence for this claim can be found in the successes of science-based technologies. Prior to the 1700s, most medical practices were based on folk traditions or on ideas promoted by religious leaders.Today, with science-based medicine and public health practices, we have gained unprecedented control over threats to our health. The following characteristics define science and scientific inquiry, which is the process of exploration and development of knowledge in science: Science is based on empirical evidence. The word empirical refers to both qualitative and quantitative data that can be gathered through observation using the senses. In addition, technological tools such as microscopes, telescopes and computers can be used to enhance scientists’ ability to make observations. An inference is a logical interpretation of a scientist’s observations.While some scientific concepts may be theoretical in that they are derived primarily from logic and reasoning, ultimately all scientific ideas must conform to known observational or experimental data in order to be considered valid. Scientific processes are both creative and imaginative. Creativity and imagination are sources of innovation and inspiration in science. In fact, creativity and imagination are integral to all aspects of a scientist’s work – making sense of observations, making a creative leap from data to possible explanation, designing investigations, or looking at old data in new ways. In the early 20th century, scientists assumed genetic material was static and unchanging as it was passed from one generation to another. McClintock noticed that the color of corn kernels did not follow typical dominant-recessive inheritance patterns, which ran counter to the idea of stable genes, which was widely accepted at the time. Barbara McClintock used imagination to postulate the mechanism by which genes would move positions on chromosomes and effect the expression of neighboring genes. Later, she gathered evidence to show that when transposons changed positions on chromosomes, the color of corn kernels changed. McClintock had discovered that when transposons where present, they controlled the expression or inhibition of neighboring genes on a chromosome. The presence of transposons determined whether a corn kernel was yellow, brown, purple, or speckled. Although McClintock followed her creative intuition in making these discoveries in the 1950s, she didnot receive the Nobel Prize for her work until 1983. Subsequent research has shown the presence of transposons in the genetic material of almost all living organisms and these transposons serve as an important source of genetic variation. Another characteristic of science are the elements of objectivity and subjectivity that form the foundation of all scientists’ work. Scientists are skeptical and apply mechanisms such as peer review and crosschecking of new results with existing data to improve the accuracy of scientific knowledge. Skepticism and peer review are two ways in which scientists strive for objectivity in their work. Nonetheless, personal values and beliefs, intuition, academic training, experiences and expectations of scientists play a significant role in the development of scientific knowledge. Thus, there is inherently a degree of subjectivity reflected in all scientific observations, inferences and interpretations. Scientific knowledge is socially and culturally embedded. Science is a human enterprise and is practiced in the context of the culture at large. The social fabric of a society with its power structures, politics and economy all affect the types of research conducted by scientists, the way new scientific information is interpreted, and whether or not it is accepted. In this module you will learn about the scientific inquiry, a standardized method used by scientists to investigate phenomena and prove or disprove theories. Understanding the process of science will empower you to be a critical consumer of information. This takes practice. Throughout this course, you will have opportunities to learn about practical applications of the scientific process. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before getting started on that, check your understanding by reviewing the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. When you are ready, check your understanding of the Scientific Inquiry Method by taking the quiz linked below. The community college open learning initiative (CC-OLI) biology course covers a subset of the topical sub-divisions of the field of biology.  In this unit we have explored how organisms interact with each other and with the nonliving environment. Populations tend to increase if provided with good living conditions. Real populations face limiting factors that increase the death rate or decrease the birth rate. Community ecology focuses on the populations that live and interact with each other in an area. Many of them are predators; they control prey populations that would otherwise increase to disruptive levels. Ecosystem ecology broadens the scope to include nonliving factors. Organisms form complex food webs consisting of producers and consumers, some of which (detritivores and decomposers) consume dead material. Bacteria act as decomposers and/or nutrient transformers in some cycles. Ecology’s greatest application is the study of environmental problems and solutions. Human activities change how biogeochemical cycles operate on a global scale. Use of renewable resources and biodegradable materials can help make our activities more sustainable. Human populations have exploded during the Industrial Age because of improvements in public health. Anthropogenic global climate change is emerging as a critically important effect of humans on the environment. By 2050, Earth may be home to about 10 billion increasingly affluent people. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. But biology does not stop with this inward-looking perspective. Biologists explore how you and other organisms get food, how you change the world around you and in turn are influenced by factors like temperature, environmental toxins, and other organisms. Let's examine the meaning of these terms to see how they differ from one another, and yet build upon one another. All of the different populations of living organisms living within an area make up an ecological community. The forest ecosystem also includes non-living factors such as chemicals in the soil, rainfall and other climate factors, and countless other features of the environment that interact with living things in the region. Additional ecosystems (lakes, grasslands, oceans, etc.) share our Earth with the forest ecosystem. Many students have some difficulty distinguishing between the definitions of ecological community and ecosystem. The community and ecosystem levels can cover exactly the same area: communities are not literally “smaller than” or “contained within” ecosystems. Instead, the ecosystem is a different way of looking at an area that includes a broader set of factors and processes than the community level of analysis. The community ecologist looks at a forest and sees particular types of birds, trees, fungi, and insects eating each other and otherwise interacting. The ecosystem ecologist looks at the same forest and may see the organisms in less detail, but also considers how the trees build the soil or how floods shape the landscape. Populations change through four primary processes. For this course we will adopt this idea and assume that, unless otherwise stated, the populations we analyze are closed. total number of deaths = 44 deaths The total land area of the city of New York is 790 km2. (1) Source: "The City of New York, Summary of Vital Statistics 2009" Researchers studying populations usually describe birth and death in terms of rates so that they can compare different populations to each other on a similar basis. According to Federal Bureau of Investigation Uniform Crime Report statistics, in 2010 there were roughly 530 cases of murder in New York City and about 180 murder cases in New Orleans, Louisiana. Think New York City is more dangerous? Raw numbers don’t tell the full story. Therefore the rate of murder was almost 8 times greater in New Orleans than in NYC. By calculating rates we can make fair comparisons between populations regardless of their size. Per capita rates can be calculated for events like birth and death or even occurrences like murders or car accidents. In each case, the calculation is equivalent. per capita rate of birth = per capita rate of death = Imagine that biologists studying the deer at Valley Forge NHP in 1985 report the following data (fictitious but based on real estimates): total number of fawns born = 110 births It is often better and more practical to describe such populations in terms of their density. For reference we also provide data for the entire state of Pennsylvania in 2007. As humans we care about changes in the density and sizes of other populations. We notice when the density of mosquitoes skyrockets after a summer rain. A contrasting model of growth is linear growth. Here a quantity grows by a constant number (not percentage) in each time interval. A series of numbers with this growth pattern would be 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and so on. Each time step the quantity increases by 2, no matter how big it might already be. In a graph, linear growth appears as a straight line. A staircase is linear: the risers are evenly spaced and you gain a set amount of height with each subsequent step. Compared to linear growth, the exponential growth pattern is a better starting point for predicting how populations will change over time. It captures a little bit of reality, in that a bigger group will have more individuals capable of producing offspring. However, it is important to emphasize that the table and graph above are based on a “what-if” exercise. They show numbers generated by a model of how populations increase. All populations have the potential and tendency to increase. But if conditions are right, individuals of any type of organism will produce offspring in excess of this replacement number. The exponential model of growth predicts what will happen if this potential is realized each generation for an extended period of time. It will decrease if the rate of death is greater than the rate of birth. Furthermore, they often attempt to live for several reproductive seasons, each time generating another set of offspring. It can be calculated as follows: Each year, the starting N is updated to reflect the growth of the previous year. The table and graph above depict a pattern of change called exponential growth. In exponential growth, a quantity grows by a constant percentage each time step. As the quantity gets larger, so does the actual amount of growth that occurs. Some familiar examples of exponential growth involve finances. A bank account may earn 1% of its value in interest each year.When the bank account’s value is $100, 1% amounts to a dollar. But if the account already contains $1 million, a gain of 1% brings in $10,000! You can recognize exponential growth as a pattern in which the numbers increase faster and faster with each time step. A series of numbers with this property would be 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, and so on. Visually, you can imagine exponential growth as a snowball rolling down a hill, picking up snow as it goes: the bigger it gets, the faster it grows. A wildfire spreading through dry grass might also grow exponentially. In a graph, exponential growth shows up as a J-shaped curve.If you imagine the graph as a staircase, each individual step is taller than the one that came before it. Data are not available for the late 1980s or early 1990s. However, the record that is available looks like this: Data are not available for the time period from 1985 to 1996.Source: A few things are evident in the graph. Instead, it increased to about 1400 until the early 2000s and then began to fluctuate. The exponential growth model assumes that populations will maintain constant rates of birth, death, and increase as they grow larger. In reality, we often see that populations stop growing—and sometimes even crash—due to the effects of limiting factors. Limiting factors are biotic or abiotic factors that limit populations by reducing birth rates, increasing death rates, or both. Limiting factors may also increase rates of emigration or decrease immigration. These factors most strongly affect small-bodied organisms that are easy to kill such as insects, microbes, and weedy plants. Ecologists agree that it is difficult to predict or model the changes in such populations, except by taking into account the weather or other outside factors known to control them. Other types of limiting factors act more gradually and have their greatest effects when populations are crowded. Scarce resources, limited space, and infectious diseases are important examples. This pattern of change is calledlogistic growth. A graph of logistic growth shows up as a slightly S-shaped curve. The rate of growth slows and then stops. Managers seek to control conditions for survival and reproduction. It would be unsafe to allow the public to hunt in the park. After extensive deliberation and community input, a deer control program was begun. In the winters of 2010 and 2011, sharpshooters were contracted to kill deer at the park; meat was provided to an area food bank. Sharpshooters removed 600 deer in 2010 and 377 deer in 2011. To learn more / sources: Valley Forge NHP White-Tailed Deer Management Page The situation is more complicated when the goal is to manage a resource so that it can be harvested. Every so often, we can remove the interest that has accumulated in a bank account. This can continue indefinitely so long as we do not remove any of the principal that is earning the interest. Many harvestable populations grow in a way that is fairly close to the logistic growth model predictions. At this point there is a large increment of growth each year and these individuals can be harvested. This is the general framework used by fisheries managers as they seek to maintain and improve the productivity of fish populations. They often set regulations and allowable harvest limits to try to keep populations close to the “sweet spot” at about 50% of carrying capacity. However, this approach can be risky. Models are not the same as reality. Outside factors such as weather events, disease epidemics, and so on can sometimes unpredictablydecimate fish populations. Because of this unpredictability, many fisheries managers try to maintain populations at a level that is a bit “too high” (say, 75% of carrying capacity) and limit harvest rates accordingly. At Valley Forge NHP, park managers recognized the need to act as deer populations climbed past 1,000 and serious ecological damage began to occur. The park’s plant diversity was severely threatened by the high deer numbers; few tree seedlings or wildflowers were able to survive except within small fenced areas (deer exclosures). Populations increase through the processes of birth and immigration; they decrease through death and emigration. When comparing processes like birth or death among populations, it is often useful to calculate per capita rates (number of events per individual per unit time). If conditions are ideal, all populations have the tendency to increase, with the birth rate exceeding the death rate. Exponential growth is a pattern of increase in which the per capita rate of increase is constant and positive. A graph of exponential growth resembles a J-shaped curve. For a short time, real populations can show bursts of growth that fit predictions of the exponential model. However, many different factors influence real populations and cause their numbers to vary over time in a somewhat unpredictable way. Often these factors become particularly intense when populations are large and crowded. The result is logistic growth, a pattern in which populations rise quickly at first and then level off at carrying capacity. A graph of logistic growth resembles a lazy S-shaped curve. Unfortunately, this produced a density of deer that was harmful to the Park’s plant populations. Control of pests and disease agents requires exactly the opposite approach. Review the following key terms from this module. People are concerned about ecological community interactions for many reasons. In fact, over a third of global crop production depends on animal pollinators. Many of these crops are pollinated by domesticated honeybees. Originally native to Eurasia, honeybees were brought to North America by the earliest European settlers. Native Americans are said to have called them the “white man’s fly.” Honeybees and other pollinators transfer pollen from one flower to another, helping to increase seed and fruit yield. Ongoing declines in bee populations are a major focus for ecological research. Since about 2006, North American beekeepers have been plagued by a complex problem called colony collapse disorder, in which worker bees abandon their hives. Research has implicated parasitic mites, viruses, pesticides, and other factors in causing bee colony declines. In 2012 scientists documented another threat: honeybees are being parasitized by a fly that was not previously known to interact with them. When the fly larvae are mature, the worker bee hostswander away from their hives at night and die away from the colony. The fly larvae then abandon the host, beheading it as they exit. Even the gory interaction with decapitating flies probably cannot explain colony collapse disorder all by itself. Instead, experts agree that many factors have likely worked together to threaten bees. As we learn more about the habitat needs of bees and threats to their existence, we may be able to find ways to protect them. In this way, biologists hope to reinforce the ancient mutualism between bees, crop plants, and food producers. To learn more review the following sources:  Core A, Runckel C, Ivers J, Quock C, Siapno T, et al. (2012). A New Threat to Honey Bees, the Parasitic Phorid Fly Apocephalus borealis. PLoS ONE 7(1): e29639.doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0029639 Krupke CH, Hunt GJ, Eitzer BD, Andino G, Given K (2012). Multiple Routes of Pesticide Exposure for Honey Bees Living Near Agricultural Fields. PLoS ONE 7(1):e29268. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0029268 Lautenbach S, Seppelt R, Liebscher J, Dormann CF (2012). Spatial and Temporal Trends of Global Pollination Benefit. PLoS ONE 7(4): e35954.doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0035954 Ecological communities can be dizzyingly complex. Among all this complexity, ecologists have worked to discover the most meaningful and important interactions: those that determine the stability and diversity of the whole community. Source and To Learn More:Whipple, WJ and RL Beschta. 2012. Trophic cascades in Yellowstone: The first 15 years after wolf reintroduction. Biological Conservation 145: 205-213. They include the most abundant trees within terrestrial forests, common grasses within grasslands, and reef-building corals. Along the coast of western North America, rocky areas are often home to a spectacular community called the kelp forest. It is dominated by kelp, big brown algae (seaweeds) whose fronds can stretch to dozens of meters in length. In ecological communities, many interactions are indirect.Indirect interactions, sometimes called “ripple effects,” occur through chains of cause and effect. Complexity of this sort is a source of fascination and challenge for ecologists attempting to unravel how communities work. Indirect interactions can produce surprises in communities. We often discover their importance only after they are eliminated by human actions. The story begins with urchins, which are abundant bottom-dwelling grazers and scavengers. Kelp are tough and fast-growing, but urchins (animals related tostarfish) can eat them with their hard rasp-like mouth parts. Urchins are protected by their prickly spines and a hard outer shell. In the absence of factors controlling their abundance, urchins can increase to very high densities, producing what are sometimes called “urchin barrens” devoid of kelp. What factors normally keep urchins in check? In the cold waters off the west coast of Alaska and Canada, evidence points to one factor as particularly critical: the presence of sea otters. Historically, humans hunted sea otters for their fur, nearly eliminating them by the late 1800s. More recently, sea otters have been reintroduced to many areas where they had been absent. Since the 1980s, researchers, including James Estes of the University of California Santa Cruz, have been tracking sea otter numbers and documenting their effects on marine communities in Alaska and off the coast of British Columbia. Sea otters are uniquely suited to eating the urchins. With their dexterous paws and long incisors, they can crack open the urchins, eating the soft flesh inside. Sometimes they even use rocks as tools to crush tough prey. After eating an urchin, a sea otter discards its empty shell, or test. A study published in 2011 by Estes and Jane Watson reported that when broken tests sink to the bottom, remaining urchins will flee from the immediate area. Thus, sea otters can reduce urchin numbers and change urchin behavior. In this way, otters safeguard kelp and help to maintain healthy kelp forests. Kelp forests provide a glimpse into the many facets of community ecology. As ecologists continue to unravel community interactions, we are improving in our ability to predict how communities will respond to factors like hunting. Kelp forests are a treasured resource for recreational diving and fishing. Kelp also are harvested for use in aquaculture and industry. The science of ecology can help us learn more about kelp forests and supports our efforts to safeguard these dazzling communities. The most important types of interactions are summarized in the table below. However, some interactions are much clearer and more easily predictable than others. These direct interactions are described using the term symbiosis,which translates to “together living.” In other cases the contact between direct interactors is more fleeting, as when a bee visits a flower or when a hawk swoops down on its prey. Mutualistic, or mutually beneficial, relationships are widespread and important features of communities. Sometimes mutualism also involves symbiosis. Many animals and plants are host to microorganisms that provide them with vital functions. In other cases, equally important mutualistic transactions are carried out at a distance: not all mutualisms are symbiotic. Animals also may help each other in subtle ways. You are no doubt familiar with many spectacular examples, as when a pack of wolves takes down a moose. More subtle examples of predation also exist. Sometimes the predator will eat only part of the prey, allowing it to live another day. Though we often use the term “herbivory” for the consumption of plants, the moose might itself be considered a predator if it harms the plants on which it feeds. Many forms of predation involve symbiosis. Such interactions are called parasitism and may involve animal or a plant hosts that provide both habitat and food to their harmful symbionts. Clear examples of competition are often seen among plants that require very similar resources, such as light, water, and certain mineral nutrients. Animals may compete for space, sometimes fighting directly for territory or simply excluding each other from living sites. What happens to prey populations if a predator is removed from a community, or if a new predator shows up? On a smaller scale, ecologists sometimes carry out true experiments. Ecological interactions range from harmful to helpful and can take on many forms. Some interactions involve exchanges of materials; others are more subtle and involve services or behaviors. Mutualistic interactions often develop when two partners have complementary abilities. Predation is a nearly universal interaction: almost every organism is food for something else, and most animals eat living prey of some kind. Until now, we have focused on specific populations responding to limiting factors such as weather, crowding, or fishing by humans. Because animals move in and out of any given area, it can be tricky to determine what populations belong within a community. However, community ecologists often want to go a step further and determine the consequences of an interaction. To find out, ecologists may do comparative observations or experiments, as we will see in this module. In several examples we will also see that community ecology is important to people. An ecological community can be described in many different ways. An ecological community is made up of all of the populations that live in an area and interact with each other. Interactions can be classified based on their effects on each party. The three principal types of interactions are mutualism (win-win), competition (lose-lose), and predation (win-lose). Key examples of mutualism include pollination, seed dispersal, and many symbiotic interactions involving microbes that live in or on larger plant and animal hosts. All organisms are involved in predation, playing roles as predators and/or prey. Symbionts that harm their hosts are classified as parasites. Therefore ecological communities are exceedingly complex. Despite their complexity, ecologists have learned a great deal about how communities operate. Some of them, like sea otters and gray wolves, are predators that maintain community diversity by keeping certain prey populations in check. In the next module we will broaden our focus a bit, recognizing that populations don’t just interact with each other: they also influence and respond to a host of nonliving, or abiotic, factors. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Matter does not disappear or appear from nothing; it is conserved. Phosphorus does not have a gaseous form, so it is not cycled globally through the atmosphere. You can think of the phosphorus cycle as a combination of two cycles: one fast and local, the other very slow and global. The fast cycle is driven by producers, consumers, and decomposers. Consumers feed on them and excrete phosphorus in their feces and urine. Producers are extremely efficient in taking up phosphate from water and phosphorus is often a key resource that limits the growth of plants. Phosphorus does not have a gaseous form, so it is not cycled globally through the atmosphere. You can think of the phosphorus cycle as a combination of two cycles: one fast and local, the other very slow and global. The fast cycle is driven by producers, consumers, and decomposers. Consumers feed on them and excrete phosphorus in their feces and urine. The slow phosphorus cycle involves the buildup, movement, and erosion of rocks. Phosphorus-rich sediments build up on ocean and lake bottoms, forming phosphate rocks over time. Seabird and bat colonies can also produce concentrated deposits of guano (excrement) that is very rich in phosphates. Through slow geologic processes, rocks containing phosphorus can be lifted up to form new land masses and their erosion can make phosphates available to producers once again. Humans now play a huge role in the global nitrogen and phosphorus cycles. Today, artificial fertilizer production fixes more nitrogen than all natural processes combined. Phosphate mining removes phosphorus from storage in rocks much more quickly than natural uplift and erosion. The result is eutrophication, the overfertilization of aquatic ecosystems by humans. Excess ammonium can kill fish. Extra phosphates and nitrates fuel blooms of algae and cyanobacteria. Each element follows its own unique pathway through an ecosystem and is concentrated in specific abiotic reservoirs. Human activities can strongly modify how natural chemical cycles work, sometimes leading to the accumulation of wastes and environmental harm. They bond with other elements to take shape as many different materials. This gas gives carbonated beverages their fizz. Organisms must obtain chemical nutrients in very specific forms. A plant has very different needs. Organisms’ needs are met through continuous recycling of chemical elements. Direct biotic cycling occurs when producers use wastes excreted by consumers; urine contains nitrogen and phosphorus compounds that can act as plant fertilizer. Cycling also occurs through decomposition. When an organism dies, its macromolecules are broken down by bacteria or fungi and the elements are returned to soil, air or water as simpler compounds. Physical processes (weather, formation and erosion of rocks, etc.) also transform and transport elements. Key features of each cycle are summarized below in the table: These flows are relatively small. Water evaporates, condenses in the air, returns to Earth as precipitation, and is transported through wind, river flow, and ocean currents. A forest can increase humidity and even boost rainfall in a region through this process. Nitrogen is cycled mainly through biological processes. The atmosphere is a huge reservoir of nitrogen; it is almost 80% N2 gas. Plants and algae obtain nitrogen as nitrate (NO3−) or ammonium (NH4+). Bacteria are the key intermediaries that drive the nitrogen cycle. Some bacteria, called nitrogen fixers, transform N2 gas to ammonium that plants can use. Bacterial and fungal decomposers break down dead organic matter and also generate ammonium. In traditional and organic agriculture, plant and animal wastes (particularly manure) are collected and composted to favor the activity of decomposers and nitrifying bacteria. The resulting nitrate-rich compost is spread on fields, providing usable nitrogen to crop plants. Although they are not as realistic as food webs, food chains and trophic levels do provide us with some important insights. Our diet is very flexible. Strict vegetarians live on trophic level 2. Those who eat a lot of animal products live closer to trophic level 3. When grain is fed to animals much of its calorie content is used by the animals themselves, and only a small fraction is available to us in the food that is produced. Therefore people who eat a diet rich in animal products generally have a greater total environmental impact—in terms of crops consumed, fertilizers used, land area farmed, etc.—than those who eat plant foods. And as seen in the largely vegetarian traditional diets of rural China or India, a given land area can support more people at lower cost if they live on trophic level 2. Consumers feed on producers directly (trophic level 2) or feed on each other through a series of transfers that can be described as a food chain. Transfer 1: sunlight → tomato plant. Some is captured by photosynthesis. Transfer 2: tomato plant → caterpillar. that make up the tissues of the caterpillar. Transfer 3: caterpillar → bird. Most of what is absorbed is used in aerobic respiration and is released as heat. Only about 10% is stored as calories in the tissues of the bird. The bottom of the pyramid contains producers (usually plants or algae). Each trophic level of consumers (level 2 and above) becomes progressively smaller. The diagram below shows each trophic level as a block of color. In keeping with real patterns as seen in many ecosystems, each block’s area is 10% or one-tenth that of the preceding block. That leaves mighty slim pickings for level 5! The mass of organisms at each trophic level can be measured, or their total annual calorie requirements can be estimated. This helps to explain why huge hunting grounds support only small numbers of top-level predators such as killer whales, great white sharks, or tigers. A tomato plant grows and produces fruit only if it has plenty of light and nutrients. Much of it is released as heat. We can break a community up into a series of food-based groups called trophic levels. Trophic level 1 is composed of producers that form the base of all ecosystems. Organisms in level 1 are eaten by organisms in level 2; organisms in level 2 are eaten by organisms in level 3; organisms in level 3 are by organisms in level 4, and so on. Photosynthetic producers such as plants are found in trophic level 1. Organisms in level 1 do not consume other living organisms to obtain nutrients. Plants, algae, and cyanobacteria are the photosynthetic producers that make up trophic level 1 in most ecosystems. Organisms in level 2 and beyond are called consumers because they obtain food by eating plants or by eating organisms that have eaten plants. Animals, fungi, and many microbes are consumers. Consumers are identified as primary, secondary and tertiary depending on their trophic level. Cows eat grass and are primary consumers. When you consume a salad, you too are acting as a primary consumer. Humans who eat meat from cattle act as secondary consumers. In addition to the chains of consumers that eat living prey, many consumers feed on dead organic material. Dead plants, dead animals, shed parts of animals such as fur or skin, shed parts of plants such as leaves, and feces all contain nutrients and calories. Animals that feed on dead organic matter are called detritivores; some of them specialize on eating dead animals (e.g., vultures) and others feed on dead plant material (e.g., earthworms, which consume decaying leaves). Detritivores and decomposers extract remaining calories and nutrients found in dead organisms and dung. In the process, they release simple inorganic wastes to the environment, making chemical elements available to producers. A food chain is a group of organisms that are joined in a linear series of feeding relationships. In the food chain above, the plant is the producer, the grasshopper is the primary consumer, the mouse the secondary consumer and the snake is the top predator or tertiary consumer. Based on the transfers shown above, plants are in trophic level 1, grasshoppers are in trophic level 2, mice are in level 3, and snakes are in level 4. Food chains are not very realistic. In real ecosystems, food chains overlap and are interconnected as food webs. Consumers rarely specialize on only one type of food. Many of them are omnivores, feeding on more than one trophic level. A mice could be eaten by a snake, but it could also be eaten by an owl, a hawk, or a house cat. A complete food web shows all of these possible feeding relationships. In diagrams that depict food chains or food webs, the arrow points from the organism being eaten to the organism doing the eating. Let's consider the following situation. A barn owl eats a mouse. This mouse has eaten a grasshopper. The grasshopper has eaten the leaves of a strawberry plant. Up to this point, we have focused on the living components of the environment. These living, or biotic, components together make up an ecological community. Its populations affect each other directly and indirectly as we just explored. It is affected by temperature and by factors like snow cover or fires. In turn, it influences nonliving factors as well. The combination of biotic and abiotic components forms an ecosystem. A community is restricted to the populations of living organisms in an area; an ecosystem also includes all of the nonliving physical and chemical factors that are important to these populations. It then moves through chains of consumers, dissipating as heat along the way. There is a continuous exchange of material between the living and nonliving portions of the ecosystem. Each chemical element retains its integrity but takes on many different forms as chemical bonds are formed and broken. To see how this material recycling takes place, think about a leaf on a tree. In autumn, the leaf dies and falls to the ground. Over time, the leaf decays. Bacteria and fungi feed on the leaf material. Thus, nitrogen has cycled between the biotic and abiotic components of the ecosystem. Living things do not live in isolation. Nonliving factors in the environment, such as sunlight, rain, gases in the air, and chemicals in the soil can affect the ability of organisms to survive and are called abiotic factors. Other organisms, classified as consumers, must eat producers or other consumers. Feeding relationships among the members of the ecosystem form a food chain, starting at the lowest level with the producers and moving to primary and secondary and tertiary consumers. Chemicals, by contrast, are recycled. You are dependent on and participate in a global ecosystem. If you eat producers directly and live on trophic level 2, your overall requirements for productive land, water, fertilizer, and other inputs are relatively low. If you eat a lot of animal products that are fed grain, your requirements are greater. In any case, you participate in activities that influence chemical cycling on a global scale. You will learn more about human activities and their environmental impacts in the next module. Next we examined how these factors have led, through various mechanisms, to effects on biodiversity and climate. But what does all this say about the future? Climate change is the most troubling environmental impact of humanity because of the global and potentially severe nature of its effects. How can humans tackle such a big and complex problem? Efforts to deal with global climate change can be placed in two broad categories: mitigation and adaptation. Climate change mitigation is the effort to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or increase the rate at which they are removed from the air, thereby slowing the pace and reducing the severity of climate change. Changes to agriculture and waste disposal practices could help reduce emissions of methane and nitrous oxides. Changes to mitigate climate change can be costly. Deciding whether to make such changes requires detailed scientific analysis. How much will a given action help to reduce climate change? What other costs and benefits will be generated? Unfortunately, there is a limit to what we can reasonably expect to achieve with mitigation. Some degree of climate warming has already occurred. Experts agree that even with our best efforts to mitigate growth in greenhouse gas emissions, these gases will continue to build up in the atmosphere and will continue to modify climate for many decades. Climate change adaptation is the effort to make humans and ecosystems less vulnerable to the effects of ongoing and future climate change. To reduce the consequences of climate change, we can develop crops that are better adapted to a warmer and drier world; improve irrigation systems to compensate for expected droughts; protect coasts from rising sea levels with sea walls or with buffer zones of natural vegetation; improve emergency response systems and preparedness; and deliberately move people, plants, and other species to areas where the climate is likely to be more tolerable in the future. Scientific assessments help to predict future changes and test the effectiveness of adaptation strategies. At this time death rates began to fall rapidly with advances in public health worldwide. Some of the most important factors were improved sanitation, basic medical care, and nutrition; later the trend was reinforced by immunization and the use of antibiotics. This health-driven reduction in death rates started in western Europe, North America, and other industrialized nations. Today, all nations have benefited to some degree from these trends; total longevity is increasing worldwide and rates of infant and child mortality continue to fall. Death rates are low and headed lower. Does this mean populations are growing equally fast everywhere? Since about 1900, birth rates have declined in industrialized, high-income nations. Why? Education and economic opportunity for women, access to contraception, and changing economic pressures have all contributed to reduced fertility in these countries. With low rates of death and birth, populations are stable or even declining in many of the world’s most affluent nations. In addition, these countries have populations with many young people just now entering reproductive age. Therefore the populations of these nations will continue to grow rapidly for years into the future. Experts predict that fertility will continue to fall in most nations as they develop economically, as contraception becomes more available, and as educational and economic opportunities for women improve. As their populations continue to expand, trends and projections indicate that low- and middle-income nations will also continue to increase in their affluence. Automobiles, electronic gadgets, and household conveniences like air conditioning and indoor plumbing are likely to reach more and more people in populous and fast-growing economies like those of Brazil, India, and China. What does this mean for the global environment? By 2050, projections suggest that the world’s humans may use a total of 140 billion tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year—three times the current consumption rate (United Nations Environmental Programme, International Resource Panel, 2011). Much will depend on the next factor, technology. After high standards of living have been achieved, societies have tended to shift toward use of lower-impact and greener technologies. Several important low-impact technologies are currently in various stages of development. Some examples include renewable electric power (mainly solar and wind power), use of plant and algal biomass as a source of renewable fuel, and improvements in the sustainability of appliances and buildings. These efforts are often supported by certification systems and ecolabels that help consumers choose lower-impact products. If these trends continue and spread globally, humanity may be able to limit some of its future environmental impacts through technological progress. However, new and more sustainable green technologies are not guaranteed to succeed. They are usually developed first in industrialized nations and their use may be limited by cost. Ultimately, green technologies will reduce our collective environmental impact only if they are widely used. To have a large effect, they must be adopted widely in industrialized nations and then quickly transferred to the fast-growing and populous nations of Asia and Africa. Major public and private investments may be needed to meet this goal. Rather than studying cities or farms, ecologists have worked in “wild” places like forests, mountain streams, coral reefs, and grasslands. Ecologists sought to unravel how plants and animals in these places interacted with each other. The activities of humans were viewed as a separate issue, outside the normal set of processes at work in “natural” communities and ecosystems. Today, however, ecologists recognize that humans have an influence on all communities and ecosystems. In some ways, we are simply participants in and members of ecosystems. Like other animals, we feed on the bodies of plants and other animals; excrete gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes; and disturb small areas of soil when we travel across the landscape on foot. What makes us different? Each of the above factors promotes greater environmental impact if all other factors are held equal. In real societies, however, all three factors change over time and influence each other. This leads to some surprising patterns of impact. In general, the air and water are cleaner, industries are better-regulated, and forests are less heavily exploited in higher-income nations. We can account for this in two ways. First, goods can be consumed in one place but generate their impacts elsewhere. With global trade, many of the impacts of consumption occur in developing nations where goods are produced, dumped, or recycled. Second, more advanced technology is not always more disruptive; technology can also be developed to reduce impact. Although there are many competing priorities, environmental concerns have become more prominent in our society since the 1970s. Corporations have adopted environmental goals as part of their mission statements. Nonprofit groups advocate for the environment. Government programs promote specific environmental goals. We use buzzwords like “sustainability” and “stewardship.” Products and ideas are marketed as being “ecosafe,” “earth-friendly,” or “green.” As a consumer, voter, employee, or business leader, you have some control over environmental impact in your daily decisions. You should have a clear sense for what sustainability really means. Sustainable technologies meet human needs—economic and social—and preserve the productivity or biodiversity of ecosystems over a long period of time. In any given case, different options may maximize individual economic benefit, public welfare, or environmental integrity. The most sustainable choice often involves finding a compromise among these competing priorities. One step toward sustainability is the careful use of renewable resources: those that are replenished quickly enough to replace what we consume. Resources are renewed through growth or other ongoing processes. Most products of plants and animals are potentially renewable, so long as we do not consume them too quickly. Such a resource can be thought of as a fixed stock. Once depleted, a nonrenewable resource cannot be replaced in useful quantities. Most mineral resources and fossil fuels are nonrenewable. Over time, if humans continue to use these resources they will become increasingly scarce. A second factor in sustainability involves the disposal or ultimate fate of materials and wastes we produce. Biodegradable materials are more sustainable over time because natural decomposition processes will break them down and recycle any nutrients they contain. Nonbiodegradable materials tend to accumulate over time and may cause negative environmental impacts. Some examples include plastics and persistent toxic chemicals. Renewable resources can be used in a sustainable way so long as the rate of use does not exceed the rate of renewal. Nonrenewable resources cannot be used indefinitely and technologies that rely heavily on them are unsustainable. In the table below we summarize several examples of renewable and nonrenewable resources. We will explore these issues in more depth in this module. Tourists flock to African savannas, coral reefs, and tropical rain forests, cameras at the ready. Kids’ picture books are populated with bright, beautiful, and bizarre animal drawings. Television nature programs, zoos, botanical gardens, and natural history museums provide an up-close look at the real thing. At some level each of us feels interested in, inspired by, or connected to nature in some form. And we are saddened to learn that much of this diversity is threatened by human activity. What is at stake? What has been lost? What can we do to protect what’s left? Much of the world’s remaining biodiversity is in the tropics within low- and moderate-income nations. Here, the biodiversity situation remains much more troubling. Nongovernmental organizations from high-income nations are spearheading these efforts. Through investments and education, they are working with communities to develop sustainable businesses that provide income while protecting the integrity of local ecosystems. To Learn More / References: Global Biodiversity Outlook 3.0 Living Planet Report 2012 As seen in the photo below, it can be measured at a number of different levels. Millions more exist but have not yet been described. Biodiversity is of great value to humans. Functioning natural ecosystems supply us with countless benefits, many of which we take for granted. When was the last time you paid—or even expressed thanks—for oxygen? As a whole, biodiversity may seem limitless. Biodiversity is reduced when populations are eliminated from local communities (local extinction). Local extinctions can severely disrupt ecological communities and may even lead to additional extinctions. Human activities have affected biodiversity for thousands of years. Tracking and clarifying this problem is a major challenge for ecologists. However, current rates of endangerment and extinction are much faster than those estimated from a study of the fossil record. Today, the vast majority of extinctions can be clearly attributed to the environmental impacts generated by human activities. The major causes of extinction can be categorized as follows: Instead, we cause extinction inadvertently when our actions generate unexpected consequences. In the past, humans were often unaware of the effects of their actions or did not try to change course until it was too late. Today, with advances in technology and ecological science, we can do much better. As a result, the status of many populations in high-income nations or in priority areas is improving. The bald eagle and peregrine falcon were nearly driven extinct by the pesticide DDT and related compounds that entered food chains, concentrated in the birds, and impaired their introduction. As seen in the graph below, these and similar cases have led to an overall increase in many vertebrate animal populations within high-income nations in North America, Europe, Australia, and Japan since 1970. You have probably heard and learned about global warming and global climate change. Through this course we aim to help you improve your knowledge about the science behind this issue and clear up any misconceptions you may have about it. The situation is similar for other greenhouse gases including methane and nitrous oxide, each of which has increased dramatically since about 1900. Clearly, greenhouse gases are increasing. Many lines of evidence confirm this. Specific human activities and practices are known to emit greenhouse gases and are also known to have increased in step with rising greenhouse gas concentrations. Many ongoing natural processes also influence levels of greenhouse gases, but these processes have not changed in a way that can account for the extra CO2 in the air. Typically natural processes cancel each other out; they are part of cycle that is more or less in balance. Human activities, by contrast, have a history of rapid increase that tracks very closely with the observed increase in the air’s greenhouse gas levels over the past century. As previously discussed, greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat. There is a clear theoretical basis for the idea that increases in greenhouse gas levels should warm the climate. There is also an abundance of direct evidence that climate has warmed in association with higher concentrations of greenhouse gases over time. Coinciding with the observed increase in greenhouse gases, scientists have documented substantial increases in the average temperatures of Earth’s air and oceans, particularly since about 1950. Many other ongoing natural processes have an influence on the climate. Why do scientists think greenhouse gas increases are the factor driving the recent warming? Again, natural processes have not changed in a way that can explain the observed warming of the climate. But these changes cannot account for recent global warming. The following are a few of the many strong indicators of change: Warm weather and ocean temperatures. In a record of weather and ocean temperature data stretching back to 1900, the top five warmest years were 2005, 2010, 1998, 2003, and 2002. Studies based on weather stations and ocean temperature measurements around the world have repeatedly found a trend of increasing temperatures since about 1900 with steep increases since around 1970. The data for land weather stations are summarized in the graph below. As average temperatures have increased, so has the frequency of extreme heat waves. These are particularly dangerous in low-income nations like India, where people lack air conditioning. Sea level rise. The average sea level has increased by an estimated 0.2 m since 1900, both because the ocean water is expanding as it warms and because glaciers on land are melting. Sea level rise is expected to continue and accelerate with continued warming of the climate. Particularly when coupled with more intense storms, increasing sea levels threaten human settlements and natural ecosystems in low-lying coastal areas worldwide. Ice and permafrost melting. The extent and thickness of floating sea ice in the Arctic has declined in recent decades. Based on satellite data, the area covered by thick multiyear ice decreased by about half between 1980 and 2012. A majority of mountain glaciers are also shrinking in thickness and area over time. Perpetually frozen soils (permafrost) have been melting to increasing depths each summer in the Arctic. Such changes have many implications. Sea ice is important to the ecology of polar bears and other arctic animals; it acts as a platform for travel and foraging. And melting of permafrost leads to landslides and releases additional greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Increased intensity or duration of drought. Climate change is likely to reduce rainfall in some regions. Record-breaking droughts and wildfire seasons are some indicators that this effect is already under way in some regions. Droughts threaten human well-being by limiting crop production and by reducing the availability of water for municipal use, navigation, power generation, and recreation. A continuing increase in Earth’s ocean and land surface temperatures since the early 1900s is known as global warming. The phrase “global warming” may leave the false impression that the Earth simply gets a bit cozier over time as this process continues. Earth’s climate is a complex system. As the climate warms, temperatures are not evenly adjusted upward by a fixed number of degrees across seasons and locations. Instead, we are also seeing many dramatic weather anomalies in recent decades, including strong hurricanes and tornadoes, protracted droughts, unusually severe heat waves, and even record snowfalls. Instead of global warming, some like to say we are experiencing “global weirding.” Anthropogenic global climate change is a more appropriate description of how climate is responding to human activities on a global scale. It is the full range of climatic disruptions that have occurred as a probable result of human alteration of the atmosphere. In other words, it is recent climate warming—and weirdness—that is probably caused by humans. The case for global climate change can be summarized as follows: As the climate warms, springtime events—leaf emergence and flowering, nesting and migration of birds, etc.—are occurring at earlier dates than in the past. To learn more about how butterflies are responding to climate changes view the video in the “Changing Planet” series by NBC Learn on “ The Adaption of Butterflies .”  Greenhouse gases are known to slow the escape of heat from Earth, and in this way they warm the climate through a mechanism called the greenhouse effect. Humans have dramatically increased levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The climate has warmed in parallel with and as a result of these changes in the atmosphere. Let’s look at some of this theory and evidence, beginning by thinking about how the Earth’s overall temperature is determined. When materials absorb light, they warm up. If the Earth had no atmosphere, heat would escape very rapidly. The Earth’s night-time surface temperatures would be like those on the moon: −153° Celsius, −243° Fahrenheit. Lucky for us, Earth has an atmosphere comprising gases that make our atmosphere act something like an insulating blanket. The atmosphere is a mixture of many different gases that are held close to Earth’s surface by gravity. The two most abundant gases in the atmosphere are N2,or nitrogen gas (78% of air by volume), and O2, or oxygen gas (21%). These greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat waves (infrared radiation). Much of the heat (infrared) radiation that leaves Earth’s surface is absorbed by greenhouse gases and reemitted back toward Earth. As a result, these gases retain heat in the atmosphere. Instead of escaping immediately to space, heat is delayed near the Earth’s surface and continues to warm our atmosphere. As you just learned, greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere retain heat and keep surface temperatures warm and relatively steady over time. This phenomenon is called the greenhouse effect. It is a natural part of the Earth’s climate system and helps make our planet livable. Currently, however, the greenhouse effect is strengthened by a high and increasing level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Evidence indicates that human activity is responsible for this increase. How does this compare to past levels? How many of us are there? How did we get to our current abundance and affluence? What were some of the major milestones along the way? Starting with the Industrial Revolution, human impacts on the environment have intensified. Many of them have become particularly extreme since about 1950. Human activities generate impacts through three major mechanisms summarized below. The scope of human actions and impacts is truly mind-boggling. The map below illustrates our global impact using a “human footprint index” that summarizes several different indicators. We humans are incredibly ingenious as individuals. But as part of an organized culture that has accumulated knowledge since the Stone Age, our power is far greater. Consider a gadget like a laptop computer. No one human really knows how to make a laptop, and certainly no individual could manufacture one from scratch working alone. Instead, thousands of individuals must contribute specialized knowledge to make the parts and assemble them in a working unit. Similar feats of cooperation and innovation allow us to make airplanes, smart phones, heart monitors, reliable automobiles, and thousands of other useful objects. We simplify and reshape ecosystems. We overuse resources so that they become scarce and costly. We make atomic weapons and synthesize chemicals that are both persistent and toxic. We overload natural geochemical cycles, leading to the accumulation of wastes. These and other impacts will be described further in this module. Next we will focus on one particular aspect of human impact that is very relevant to the field of biology: how humans have changed biodiversity on a global scale. Based on fossil and genetic evidence, the first anatomically modern Homo sapiens arose in Africa about 200,000 years ago. We will call them the Stone Age, the Agricultural Age, and the Industrial Age. Stone Age. By 50,000 years ago, humans had developed many features of Stone Age technology and culture. By 20,000 years ago, modern humans had dispersed through much of the world. Stone Age humans obtained food by fishing, hunting wild game, and gathering wild plant products. Food sources were unreliable and most humans were nomadic, traveling widely to find food. Shelter, clothing, and tools were made from stone, animal hides, and wood. Fire was used as a source of heat and to modify the landscape for better hunting or travel. Agricultural Age. This age started around 10,000 years ago. It involved many (though not all) human cultures worldwide and extended through the late 1700s. People began to domesticate plants and animals. Food supplies became more reliable and abundant and diets expanded to include grains, poultry, meat and dairy products from livestock, improved fruits and nuts, and more. Agricultural Age humans stayed close to productive farms and pastures and built the first permanent towns and cities. Humans began to extract and forge metal to make durable tools, weapons, and ornaments. Governments, organized religions, and written languages flourished. Industrial Age. The Industrial Age began in Europe in the 1700s and continues today. Agriculture continued to improve and cities continued to grow. Global trade moved people and ideas around the world. Science helped to spark new technologies. Scientific principles were applied to improve public health, beginning with vast improvements to sanitation in cities. Sewage treatment, safe municipal water supplies, public garbage disposal, and soap are all Industrial Age innovations. Modern medical practices, including aseptic surgery, antibiotics, and vaccinations, were developed. At the same time, the reliability and quality of food supplies continued to improve. Thus the world’s humans have gone through dramatic changes in their technologies and living conditions. How have humans impacted the environment over this time span? Humans have had an impact on Earth’s ecosystems at every stage of our history. Hunting may have depleted some food resources and probably contributed to past animal extinctions as well. During the Agricultural Age, humans cleared forests and created dams and irrigation systems. In some cases, resources like forests or fertile soils were depleted on a local or regional scale, contributing to the collapse of human societies. Throughout this history, however, human impacts on the environment were limited in their scope and severity. In this module we’ve taken a broad look at some of the impacts of human beings on the Earth’s ecosystems and communities. We began with an organizing framework for understanding and predicting impacts. All else being equal, human impacts will increase as populations get bigger, increase with greater affluence and a higher standard of living, and will depend upon the types of technologies that are used to support that standard of living. Technologies are sustainable when they can be used over the long term without degrading ecosystems; they also must meet human needs or people will not choose to use them. Two measures of sustainability are the use of renewable resources and biodegradable materials. In the Stone Age, thinly scattered bands of hunter-gatherers had a limited impact on Earth’s ecosystems. Human environmental impacts have increased accordingly. Some mechanisms of human impact include physical disturbance of landscapes, depletion of resources, and pollution. Humans are inspired and comforted by biodiversity. We also depend on naturally functioning ecosystems directly as a source of products and services. Natural ecosystems remove pollutants from air and water, physically stabilize land, harbor animals that pollinate crops, provide recreational opportunities, are a source of harvested goods, and hold diverse biochemicals and other “ideas” for useful products. Currently these factors are generating the most damage in lower- and middle-income nations in the tropics. Physical and chemical factors have also changed as a result of human influence. One particularly important human impact is now known as anthropogenic global climate change. This trend is also known as global warming and is related to a natural phenomenon known as the greenhouse effect. Certain gases warm the climate by absorbing and re-emitting heat radiation, keeping temperatures warmer and more stable near the planet’s surface. Humans have strengthened this effect by adding extra greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Some results have included increased temperatures, increased sea level, increasingly variable weather, melting ice and permafrost, increasing droughts, shifts in species distributions, and shifts in the timing of seasonal events. The future of humanity will be strongly affected by these and other environmental trends. What can we predict about how our environmental impacts will develop over time? At the same time, increasing affluence in many of these nations will lead to unprecedented global levels of consumption. Many lower-impact technologies are emerging that may help to reduce some of humanity’s impacts on the environment, but it is unclear how quickly or widely they will spread. There are many potential actions humans can take to reduce risks from accelerating problems like climate change and biodiversity loss. In the case of climate change, we are beginning to respond with two overall strategies. The first, mitigation, seeks to slow climate change by reducing the rate of increase in greenhouse gas levels. The second, adaptation, is an effort to prepare for future changes in climate and minimize harm to humans and ecosystems. Both approaches will require concerted effort on a global scale. We hope that you have benefited from this module. Starting with a good grasp of the basics, you can learn a great deal more about our effects on the environment. You can contribute to sustainable solutions through actions taken at the individual and family level. And you can promote more sustainable practices within any group of which you’re a part, whether it is a extracurricular club, church, business, government agency, or nonprofit organization. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. You should be able to distinguish between an acid and a base and be able to discuss the importance of buffering in biological systems. When you feel ready, take the unit quiz. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. Key questions that you should be able to answer are: You should be able to distinguish between an acid and a base and be able to discuss the importance of buffering in biological systems. When you feel ready, take the unit quiz. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. When you feel ready, take the unit quiz. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. Can you describe the role of ATP and glucose in biology? Stop for a moment and reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. Formulate questions you still have regarding the content, and submit them in the My Response text box.  The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Common carbohydrates are sugars and starches. Lipids include fats, oils, waxes, phospholipids, and steroids. Can be approximated by adding the number of protons and the number of neutrons. Therefore the atomic number of lithium is 3. Many foods and beverages are acidic, including citrus fruit and tomato juice.  Describes a property of matter in which particles tend to stick together.  Negatively charged subatomic particle that occupies shells surrounding the nucleus and has a mass that is so small it is considered to be zero. The most important strongly electronegative elements in biological systems are oxygen and nitrogen. Ionic and polar substances are hydrophilic. Positive ions are referred to as cations. Negative ions are referred to as anions.  An attractive force generated by the interactions between ions of opposite charges. Bases taste bitter and feel slippery. Soaps are common basic substances. Anything that occupies space and has mass. Subatomic particle with a neutral charge that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit.  The word nucleus is used in two different contexts in the study of biology. Loosely defined, nucleus means "center" or "core."  Positively charged subatomic particle that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit.  Component of a solution that is present in the smallest quantity and which dissolves in a solvent. Homogeneous mixtures of solvent and solute.  Component of a solution that is present in the greatest quantity and in which something else is dissolved.  The capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. Some common monosaccharides are glucose, fructose, and ribose. A carbohydrate made of two monosaccharides linked together by a covalent bond. Two common disaccharides are sucrose and lactose. glucose + fructose = Sucrose (table sugar) glucose + galactose = Lactose (milk sugar) A carbohydrate consisting of long chains of monosaccharides. Some common polysaccharides are starch, glycogen, and cellulose. Excess glycogen is converted to fat. Starch is made by producers, not animals. Indigestible carbohydrates, which cannot be degraded by human digestive enzymes but that still play important roles in maintaining health. Solutions with a pH less than 7 are acidic. Solutions with a pH of 7 are neutral. Solutions with a pH greater than 7 are basic. The general form of a neutralization reaction is: Solutions which resist changes in pH by acting as either an acid or a base. This means that if a small amount of acid or base is introduced to the bloodstream, components in your blood will neutralize the acid or base and the pH of your blood will change only very slightly. All cells share a similar chemistry. Can you describe the role of ATP and glucose in biology? You should be able to distinguish between an acid and a base and be able to discuss the importance of buffering in biological systems. Production note: Add self-rated competency and "My Response" questions. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. There is a great diversity among living things. Biology is a study of the diversity and the commonalities of living organisms. Living and nonliving things are made of matter. All living organisms share the same levels of organization and the levels move from the simple to more complex. The next level of organization is the organelle. The most complex and all encompassing level is the biosphere. The levels of organization are depicted in the figure below: Biology is the study of the living components of the hierarchy. All living and nonliving things are composed of matter. Matter can be defined as anything that occupies space and has mass. The mass of an object is a measure of how much matter it has (that is, how much “stuff” is in it). Mass is not exactly the same as weight, but here on Earth we can measure and compare the masses of different objects by weighing them. When we explore matter scientifically, we find that it takes on many different structures as we zoom in at smaller and smaller scales. Each atom belongs to one of 92 naturally occurring elements found in living and nonliving things. Elements are designated by either one or two letters. These 5 elements make up over 96% of your mass. This is one of the common features of all living organisms. This is one of the common features of all living organisms. All living and nonliving things are composed of matter. Matter can be defined as anything that occupies space and has mass. The mass of an object is a measure of how much matter it has (that is, how much “stuff” is in it). Mass is not exactly the same as weight, but here on Earth we can measure and compare the masses of different objects by weighing them. When we explore matter scientifically, we find that it takes on many different structures as we zoom in at smaller and smaller scales. Electrons have a negative charge designated by the negative sign (-). Neutrons are electrically neutral, neither positive nor negatively charged. When calculating atomic mass, we pay attention only to the protons and neutrons; the electrons have almost no mass. In addition to location and mass, each subatomic particle has a property called “charge.” Charge can be “positive” or “negative.” Items with the same charge tend to repel each other and items with opposite charge tend to attract. Protons have a positive charge and neutrons have no charge, giving the nucleus a positive overall charge. Each electron has a negative charge that is equal in strength to the positive charge of a proton. Electrons are found outside of the nucleus, in zones that are called “shells.” Electrons have almost no mass. When calculating atomic mass, we pay attention only to the protons and neutrons; the electrons have almost no mass. The atomic mass is the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons. In addition to location and mass, each subatomic particle has a property called “charge.” Charge can be “positive” or “negative.” Items with the same charge tend to repel each other and items with opposite charges tend to attract each other. Protons have a positive charge and neutrons have no charge, giving the nucleus a positive overall charge. Each electron has a negative charge that is equal in strength to the positive charge of a proton. Complete the activity above and then answer the following questions. Complete the activity above and then answer the following questions. Yet there are some regular patterns that make it easier for us to categorize elements and understand why they behave as they do. The periodic table of elements organizes all known elements into one table. As you will see, there is a logic to its organization. Lead, on the other hand, is relatively inert. Yet all elements share some regular patterns that make it easier for us to categorize them and understand why they behave as they do. Beryllium (Be) has four protons in its nucleus, and so on. Based on their atomic numbers, elements can be organized into a periodic table of elements like the one pictured below. The number at the top of each box in the table is the atomic number of the element. In addition to providing information about each element’s atomic number, most periodic tables also provide an atomic mass for each element. The atomic mass, also known as the atomic weight, reports the mass of the nucleus. The mass of the nucleus is the sum of all protons and neutrons found in the nucleus. The units of atomic mass are Daltons, abbreviated Da, named after the British scientist John Dalton. Helium (He) has a mass of 4 Da or 6.67 x 10-27 kg. Notice that the atomic mass or atomic weight on the periodic table is not generally a whole number. How is that possible? Scientists have learned that isotopes have many useful properties. Some isotopes can be used to trace chemical reactions. If a special isotope is placed in fertilizer, for instance, that same isotope will later show up in the tissues of plants, then animals and decomposers as the nutrient moves through the food web. Some isotopes break down into others at a constant rate, allowing us to determine the age of fossils or artifacts. Radioactive isotopes can be used to visualize certain tissues for medical diagnosis. It emits radiation as it breaks down to another isotope of iodine. Special cameras can pick up this radiation and use it to create an image of the thyroid gland. This can help determine if the patient’s thyroid is normally active or to detect thyroid cancer. In addition to providing information about each element’s atomic number, most periodic tables also provide an atomic mass for each element. The atomic mass, also known as the atomic weight, (the mass of the nucleus) is the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons. Notice that the atomic mass or atomic weight on the periodic table isn’t generally a whole number. How is that possible? Scientists have learned that isotopes have many useful properties. Some isotopes can be used to trace chemical reactions. If a special isotope is placed in fertilizer, for instance, that same isotope will later show up in the tissues of plants, then animals and decomposers as the nutrient moves through the food web. Some isotopes break down into others at a constant rate, allowing us to determine the age of fossils or artifacts. Radioactive isotopes can be used to visualize certain tissues for medical diagnosis. It emits radiation as it breaks down to another isotope of iodine. Special cameras can pick up this radiation and use it to create an image of the thyroid gland. This can help determine if the patient’s thyroid is normally active or to detect thyroid cancer. As you recall, negatively charged electrons are pulled toward the positively charged nucleus. Electrons that are close to the nucleus are less energetic than those electrons farther from the nucleus. Electrons reside in the space outside the nucleus in regions called shells. The first shell can hold two electrons; the second and third shells can hold up to eight electrons. Electrons fill up lower shells before moving to the next higher shell. The electrons that occupy the outermost shell are called valence electrons and are the electrons that are involved in chemical bonding. The chemical properties of an element depend mostly on the number of valence electrons. Helium (He) has a full outer shell with two electrons; directly below it in the periodic table is Neon. Neon (Ne) has an inner shell with two electrons and a full second shell with eight electrons. In fact, all of the elements in that column of the periodic table have full outer shells, are stable, and do not react with other elements. Complete the activity above and then answer the following questions. Opposite charges cancel each other out when they are close together. That’s right — it is neutral. Some elements readily take on one or more extra electrons. They become anions that carry a negative charge, because they have more electrons than protons. On the periodic table, elements to the right (with the exception of the last column) are likely to take on extra electrons. It is likely to take on one extra electron to fill its outer shell, becoming an anion with a charge of -1. The same can be said for other elements in the same column with chlorine. Conversely, elements on the left side of the periodic table tend to give up one or more electrons and become cations with a positive net charge. It readily gives up this electron, becoming a cation with a charge of +1. The same can be said for lithium (Li) and other elements in this column. Scientists have learned to use isotopes in many different ways. Other isotopes are unstable and they tend to decay (or break down into other isotopes) at a constant rate. Scientists have learned how to use unstable isotopes to determine the age of fossils or artifacts. Finally, some isotopes are radioactive. Radioactive isotopes can be used to visualize certain tissues for medical diagnosis. It emits radiation as it breaks down to another isotope of iodine. Special cameras can pick up this radiation and use it to create an image of the thyroid gland to determine if the patient's thyroid is functioning normally. If there is abnormal activity in the thyroid gland, this can indicate cancer. In PET, a patient ingests sugar that is marked with a radioactive isotope. The patient is then moved into a PET scanner, where the radioactive isotopes are visualized and the machine translates the data into an image. This can help in a variety of applications, from cancer and Alzheimer’s disease diagnosis to addiction research (see image). This is what you’ll learn about in the next module. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before getting started on that, check your understanding by reviewing the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. Elements in the outer columns of the periodic table often react in this manner; elements like sodium tend to lose electrons and become cations (positively charged ions), whereas elements like chlorine tend to gain electrons and become anions (negatively charged ions). Chlorine (Cl) has an atomic number of 17, so it has 7 electrons in its outermost shell. Chlorine needs one more electron to have a full outer shell. Sodium (Na) has an atomic number of 11, with one electron in its outermost shell. Sodium needs to get rid of an electron, and then it will have a full outer shell. By losing an electron, sodium becomes a cation with a positive charge (+1). By gaining an electron, chlorine becomes an anion with a negative charge (-1). Now each ion has a net charge and the two charges are opposite. The ions attract one another. The electrostatic interaction between the sodium ion and the chlorine ion is an ionic bond . A single pair of shared electrons makes a single covalent bond. Carbons can form long chains, or they can form rings. Glucose can form a ring to become: A single pair of shared electrons makes a single covalent bond. This sharing of electrons is called a covalent bond. In an ammonia molecule, nitrogen effectively has a “full” second shell (8 electrons) and each hydrogen has a “full” second shell (two electrons). A single covalent bond is drawn as one line; a double covalent bond is drawn as 2 lines. Thus a structural formula of methane (CH4) would be drawn like this: These conventions simplify diagrams of molecular structures. These solid and striped triangle-shaped bonds describe the three-dimensional shape of the molecule. The molecular mass or weight of a molecule is the sum of the individual atomic weights. Examine the activity below. This simplifies the drawing and makes important structures easier to see. Explore the activity above and then answer the following questions. Below are skeletal diagrams of glucose. In these examples, the carbons are located at each angle in the diagram. This sharing of electrons is called a covalent bond. A single covalent bond is drawn as one line; a double covalent bond is drawn as 2 lines. Thus a structural formula of methane (CH4) would be drawn like this: These conventions simplify diagrams of molecular structures. These solid and striped triangle-shaped bonds describe the 3 dimensional shape of the molecule. The molecular mass or weight of a molecule is the sum of the individual atomic weights. Examine the activity below. This simplifies the drawing and makes important structures easier to see. Explore this interactive visual, then answer the questions below. Explore the activity above and then answer the following questions. Below are a skeletal diagrams of glucose. In these examples, the carbons are located at each angle in the diagram. A single covalent bond is drawn as one line; a double covalent bond is drawn as 2 lines. CH4 would be drawn as: Explore the activity above and then answer the following questions. This is another way to draw glucose: We’ll explore this in more detail in the next module. Electronegativity increases as one moves from the left to the right across the periodic table. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before proceeding, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. When you are ready, check your understanding of chemical bonding by taking the quiz linked below. There are 92 different kinds of elements that are naturally occurring on Earth. Elements are designated by either one- or two-letter abbreviations and they can be organized into a chart called the periodic table. We will take a closer look at the periodic table (also called the periodic chart) later in this unit. It is easy! Some elements are found in relatively small amounts and are called “trace elements.” Examples include sodium (Na), potassium (K), chlorine (Cl), manganese (Mn), and Zinc (Zn). Biology is a study of the diversity and the commonalities of living organisms. Living and nonliving things are made of matter. The next level of organization is the organelle. Organelles are working units within cells. The most complex and all encompassing level is the biosphere. The levels of organization are depicted in the figure below :  The following image represnts the levels of organization of matter from simple (1) to complex (6), as seen above. Biology is the study of the living components of the hierarchy. Biological systems use only a small subset of the elements (approximately 10 %) found on earth. Matter is anything that has mass and takes up space. Solutions are homogeneous mixtures. This means that you can sample any part of the solution and the composition of the solution will be the same. Production note: replace still image with dissolved-butane Jmol. The dissolved butane is highlighted in yellow. Phys, 134, 121104 (2011). The unequal distribution of electrons makes the bond a polar bond. The dissolved butane is highlighted in yellow. Right-click to display a pop-up menu and select zoom-in or zoom-out to examine the chemical bonds. (Source: pdb file modified from Udachin et al., J. Chem. Phys, 134, 121104 (2011). The unequal distribution of electrons makes the bond a polar bond. Solutions have two components: Solutions can have more than one solute. If you add sugar to your salt solution, both sugar and salt would be the solutes of the solution. When a solute is added to a solvent and a solution is formed; the solute is described as “dissolving” in the solvent. Ionic substances like table salt (NaCl) are hydrophilic. Examples include sugars and alcohols, which have hydroxyl groups. You can often determine whether a substance is hydrophobic or hydrophilic simply by using common knowledge. Oils and oil-like substances will probably be hydrophobic. Go ahead and try it out. Cohesion allows surface tension, the capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. If you touch the metal pan after a few minutes, it is warm or even hot to the touch, but the water does not yet feel warm. Imagine a rack of billiard (pool) balls. What would happen if the balls were connected by rubber bands? They would not move nearly as much. You may have noticed that snowy days are often not quite as cold as the dry clear days of winter. This is important for lakes and ponds that contain fish and plants. When the temperature goes below freezing, ice is formed. The ice is less dense than the liquid, so it floats on the top of the lake or pond. The surface ice insulates the pond, helping it to retain heat, and keeps the pond from freezing solid. Click on the "Spin on/off" checkbox to automatically spin or stop spinning the molecule. This is important for lakes and ponds that contain fish and plants. When the temperature goes below freezing, ice is formed. The ice is less dense than the liquid, so it floats on the top of the lake or pond. The surface ice insulates the pond, helping it to retain heat, and keeps the pond from freezing solid. In the next module, you’ll explore pH and learn about how acids and bases affect living systems. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. We use detergents to remove oily dirt from things. We use dish detergent to remove the grease on dishes, laundry detergent for oils on our clothes, and shampoo for oils in our hair. Detergents make the hydrophobic oils soluble so that the dirt can be rinsed away. How does this happen? When a micelle comes in contact with oily (hydrophobic) compounds, the oils dissolve into the interior of the micelle and can be washed away with the micelle. We use detergents to remove oily dirt from things. We use dish detergent to remove the grease on dishes, laundry detergent for oils on our clothes, and shampoo for oils in our hair. Detergents make the hydrophobic oils soluble so that the dirt can be rinsed away. How does this happen? When a micelle comes in contact with oily (hydrophobic) compounds, the oils dissolve into the interior of the micelle and can be washed away with the micelle. A cross section of a micelle is shown on the left. The white balls represent the hydrophilic part of the molecule; the yellow strings represent the hydrophobic part of the detergent. Automatically rotate the molecule by clicking on the "Spin on" checkbox. We use detergents to remove oily dirt from things. We use dish detergent to remove the grease on dishes, laundry detergent for oils on our clothes, and shampoo for oils in our hair. Detergents make the hydrophobic oils soluble so that the dirt can be rinsed away. How does this happen? When a micelle comes in contact with oily (hydrophobic) compounds, the oils dissolve into the interior of the micelle and can be washed away with the micelle. A cross section of a micelle is shown on the left. The white balls represent the hydrophilic part of the molecule; the yellow strings represent the hydrophobic part of the detergent. These compounds are called bases. The end result is the same. Cellular functions are disrupted if these fluids become too acidic or basic. The acidity of a solution is measured on the pH scale. Solutions with pH measurements below 7 are acidic while solutions with pH measurement above 7 are basic. The pH scale is logarithmic. This means that the difference between each unit is 10-fold. Starting at pH 7, a solution at pH 6 would have 10 times more H+ than the neutral solution. On the other hand, a solution at pH 8 would have 10 times fewer H+ than the solution with pH 7. If you skip a few units, the differences between solutions become very great indeed. Lemon juice (pH 2) has 1 million times more H+ ions per unit volume than seawater, which has a pH of about 8. The acidity of a solution is measured on the pH scale. Solutions with pH measurements below 7 are acidic while solutions with pH measurement above 7 are basic. The acidity of a solution is measured on the pH scale. Solutions with pH measurements below 7 are acidic, while solutions with pH measurement above 7 are basic. To represent very large differences in concentration levels, a logarithmic mathematical function is used to denote the pH scale. Thus, starting at pH 7, a solution at pH 6 would have 10 times more H+ than a neutral solution. On the other hand, a solution at pH 8 would have 10 times fewer H+ than the solution with pH 7. If you skip a few units, the differences between solutions become very great indeed. Lemon juice (pH 2) has one million times more H+ ions per unit volume than seawater, which has a pH of about 8.  In the following activity, determine the pH of these common substances by dragging them to the appropriate box on the pH scale. Once you have completed the activity, answer the following questions concerning the pH of common substances. To represent very large differences in concentration levels a logarithmic mathematical function is used to denote the pH scale. The minus sign changes the negative numbers that would be obtained from log[H+] to positive ones. Thus, starting at pH 7, a solution at pH 6 would have 10 times more H+ than a neutral solution. On the other hand, a solution at pH 8 would have 10 times fewer H+ than the solution with pH 7. If you skip a few units, the differences between solutions become very great indeed. Lemon juice (pH 2) has 1 million times more H+ ions per unit volume than seawater, which has a pH of about 8.  In the following activity, determine the pH of these common substances by dragging them to the appropriate box on the pH scale. Once you have completed the activity, answer the following questions concerning the pH of common substances. Let’s consider the combination of equal amounts of hydrochloric acid (HCl), a strong acid, and sodium hydroxide (NaOH), a strong base. The remaining sodium ion (Na+) from the sodium hydroxide and the remaining chloride ion (Cl-) from the hydrochloric acid also stay in solution as dissolved table salt (NaCl). This process can be written as it is below: Neutralization has many useful applications. As you will learn later in this course, the addition of acids and bases to the environment leads to ecosystem damage, so before a strong acid or base can be disposed of, it must be neutralized (to make water and salt) to prevent injuries or environmental damage. Grass grows best in a very mildly acidic soil (pH 6.5 to 7). So if your soil is too acidic (less than pH 6.5), you would need to add a compound like limestone (a basic mineral) to your soil to neutralize the excess acidity and correct the pH level. Likewise, if your soil is too basic (pH above 7), you would need to add sulfur, which interacts with water in the soil to form sulfuric acid, to help neutralize the excess base in the soil. Another common application of neutralization is the standard volcano science fair project, where a mixture of vinegar (an acid) and baking soda (a base) are combined to make the volcano "erupt." If you ever come into contact with a strong acid or base and receive a chemical burn, DO NOT attempt your own science experiment to try and neutralize the compound. The damage to your skin is already occurring and can be exacerbated by adding more chemicals; a vigorous neutralization reaction could cause further harm through the release of heat, causing a physical burn on top of the chemical burn already suffered. Your safest option is to wash the affected area under a heavy stream of running water, and to seek medical attention for your burn. The goal is to remove the agent causing the burn to prevent further damage. One of the ways that scientists can measure the pH of a solution is to use indicator paper. This is special paper that is infused with dyes that change color when placed in an acid or a base. The most simple indicator paper is called litmus paper. Litmus paper comes in two colors - red and blue. One of the ways that scientists can measure the pH of a solution is to use indicator paper. This is special paper that is infused with dyes that change color when placed in an acid or a base. The most simple indicator paper is called litmus paper. Litmus paper comes in two colors — red and blue. In the presence of a neutral solution, red litmus paper remains red, and blue litmus paper remains blue. She decided to use red and blue litmus paper to test these solutions. Lotisha poured each solution into a separate beaker, and dipped both red and blue litmus paper into each beaker. Observe her results to determine whether each substance is acidic, basic or neutral. Red litmus paper turns blue in the presence of a base (it does not chance color in the presence of an acid). Blue litmus paper turns red in the presence of an acid (it does not change color in the presence of a base). In the presence of a neutral solution red litmus paper remains red, and blue litmus paper remains blue. She decides that she is going to use red and blue litmus paper to test these solutions. Lotisha poured each solution into a separate beaker, and dipped both red and blue litmus paper into each beaker. Observe her results to determine whether each substance is acidic, basic or neutral.  In the following activity, determine the pH of these common substances by dragging them to the appropriate box on the pH scale. Once you have completed the activity, answer the following questions concerning the pH of common substances. What remains is only a single proton. The simplicity of this ion, however, is quite misleading. In this module, we will investigate the dynamics of H+ and learn more about the effects H+ can have on solutions. This dynamic reaction can be represented by this chemical equation: H2O + H2O H3O+ + OH-. Notice that the two arrows point in opposite directions. This simply means that the equation can move in either direction. However, other compounds disturb this balance. These compounds are called bases. The end result is the same. Cellular functions are disrupted if these fluids become too acidic or basic. Living organisms are quite sensitive to even small changes in pH. Therefore, organisms have mechanisms that work to maintain a constant pH level. This is true both at the cellular level and at the level of the whole organism. Maintaining a stable pH in a living organism is an important part of homeostasis. One way in which changes in pH are moderated is through the use of buffers. Buffers are aqueous solutions that can resist changes in pH. When an acid or a base is added to a solution containing a buffer, the pH of the solution will only exhibit a very minor change. Blood is a buffered solution. The liquid portion of blood contains carbonic acid (H2CO3). This reaction is easily reversible. If a base enters the blood, the H+ concentration will initially go down. Thus the easily reversible reaction works to oppose any pH change in the blood. A buffered solution cannot absorb an unlimited amount of acid or base. The solution’s pH will change rapidly if further acid or base is added. While maintaining a pH close to neutral is usually the goal of homeostasis, there are certain conditions and parts of organisms that are maintained at a lower (more acidic) pH. For instance, the process of digestion is aided by the presence of stomach acid (pH 2). Not only does stomach acid help to break down the compounds in our food, it also helps to prevent disease by killing many of the bacteria and viruses found in food and water. Lysosomes, digestive organelles found in eukaryotic cells, have an internal pH of about 5. Again this acidic environment is used to break down cellular food, waste, and even invading bacteria. Likewise, the surface of our skin is acidic (pH of 4.5 to 6), which helps to support the growth of our normal bacterial flora, as well as to help prevent the growth of pathogenic bacteria. For instance, the female vaginal tract is moderately acidic, with a pH between 3.8 and 4.5. Conversely, if the pH decreases (becomes more acidic), women are more prone to yeast infections. In people with diabetes, cells cannot take up glucose (sugar) from the blood efficiently. As a result, cells switch from using glucose (sugar) as a fuel source and use fatty acids (fats) instead. This poses no problem because your blood is buffered, and your liver and kidneys are able to remove the excess acids before they cause problems. However, in people with diabetes, chronic release of ketone acids can overwhelm these systems. Ketone acids build up in the blood and urine, leading to a condition called ketoacidosis. If the pH balance is not restored, diabetics in ketoacidosis can face serious harm and even death. Different environments have different pH levels, and organisms that live in those locations have adapted to those conditions. When environmental pH levels are disrupted, the health and vitality of the ecosystem becomes threatened. As you have learned, seawater is slightly basic at pH 8. You will learn more about this in the Photosynthesis / Cellular Respiration module in the Metabolism unit. Acidification of the ocean threatens the health of the organisms that call the ocean home. Another environmental problem involving pH balance is acid rain. When nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide, two common by-products of burning fossil fuels, combine with water in the Earth’s atmosphere, acid rain is produced. In some regions, acid rain reduces the pH of fresh water sources like streams, rivers, and lakes. It also may change soil chemistry and harm plants. Some regions have rocks and soils that contain buffers, and they are less susceptible to damage from acid rain. Tighter regulations on coal-burning power plants have helped reduce the acid rain problem in recent decades, but it remains a threat to some forest and aquatic ecosystems and the organisms living within them. We will learn more about acid rain in the Ecology unit. Even something as simple as soil pH can affect the kinds of plants that can live in an area. Before proceeding with the course, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this module by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Carbohydrates can also be used as structural building materials. This helps tree bark, plant leaf stalks, and other structures resist wind and other physical forces in the environment. Cellulose, while indigestible to humans, is an important part of our diets because it makes up dietary fiber, which has been linked to lowered risk of diabetes and heart disease. All three of these foods are high in carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are either simple (often referred to as sugars) or complex. Simple carbohydrates (sugars) are made up of only one or two sugar monomers. The table below summarizes the charateristics of carbohydrates based on their size and number of sugar molecule subunits. Some complex carbohydrates are also used as structural components. All three of these foods are high in carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are either simple (often referred to as sugars) or complex. Simple carbohydrates (sugars) are made up of only one or two sugar monomers. Some complex carbohydrates are also used as structural components. Monosaccharides are the simplest sugars. The more common monosaccharides contain six carbons and have a molecular formula of C6H12O6. Disaccharides are made of two monosaccharides linked together by a covalent bond (the root “di” means "two"). Polysaccharides are long chains of monosaccharides (“poly” means "many"). Glycogen, starch (amylose and amylopectin), and cellulose are all made of many linked glucose monomers. The main difference is how the glucose monomers are linked together. These differences are explained in more detail below. Chitin, a modified structural polysaccharide, is best known as a major component of the exoskeleton (hard outer shell) of arthropods (e.g., beetles, crabs, lobsters) and mollusks (e.g., snails, clams, scallops). Chitin (C8H13NO5)n is comprised of slightly-modified glucose monomers. Glucose, with the chemical formula C6H12O6, is a simple sugar and a monosaccharide. This will be covered in greater detail in the metabolism unit. Glycogen is primarily stored in the liver, with small amounts being stored in the muscles. Starch, another branching polysaccharide, is the primary form in which excess glucose is stored in plants (and other producers). Starch, just like glycogen, is composed of individual glucose monomers joined together. Cellulose, like glycogen and starch, is a polysaccharide that is made up of many glucose monosaccharides linked together. This carbohydrate is indigestible by humans and most animals. Some animals (e.g. cows, horses, and termites) can digest this carbohydrate. These animals have symbiotic (“living together”) bacteria that inhabit their digestive tract. The bacteria produce enzymes that break down cellulose, making sugar available to their hosts. Although we will not delve into the specifics of this topic, carbohydrates play a variety of roles in identification and signaling. One of the ways your immune system is able to identify foreign invaders is through detection of the different carbohydrates displayed on the surface of cells. Additionally, the first step in fertilization between a sperm and egg is generally believed to involve carbohydrate-to-carbohydrate interactions. Indigestible carbohydrates, which cannot be degraded by human digestive enzymes, are referred to as dietary fiber. Pectin is another structural carbohydrate found in most plants, especially apples and citrus fruits, and is commonly used as a gelling agent to make jams and jellies. A diet high in fiber has several benefits. Dietary fiber plays a role in maintaining regular digestive functioning, slowing the absorption of sugar into the bloodstream, and reducing bad cholesterol. So the old saying “an apple a day keeps the doctor away” does have some truth to it, since there are proven health benefits associated with the consumption of foods that are high in fiber, like apples. Other foods that are high in fiber are oatmeal, popcorn, raspberries, black beans, lentils, and peas, to name a few. However, excessively high blood sugar levels can be equally dangerous. Accordingly, doctors routinely suggest that diabetics eat a diet high in fiber to help manage their diabetes, since fiber helps to slow the absorption of sugar into the bloodstream, which helps diabetics to prevent spikes in blood sugar. All living organisms contain four major classes of macromolecules, one of which is carbohydrates. Carbohydrates also function as structural materials and in cellular signaling and recognition. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before starting, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. In the next modules, you will begin exploring each of these groups, starting with carbohydrates. But before you move on, make sure you understand the following key terms. Then take the module quiz when you’re ready. How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism unit of the course. In chemistry, the word “organic” has a special meaning. It is different from the grocery-store meaning, where “organic” refers to foods that are grown in a particular way and are free of chemical pesticides. Humans have also developed ways to synthesize organic chemicals artificially. In chemistry, the word “organic” has a special meaning. It is different from the grocery-store meaning, where “organic” refers to foods that are grown in a particular way and are free of pesticides. They can also contain oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. Humans have developed ways to synthesize organic chemicals artificially. It may help to consider an analogy: with a few dozen different kinds of Lego bricks, you can make an almost limitless diversity of structures. It may help to consider an analogy: with a few dozen different kinds of Lego bricks, you can make an almost limitless diversity of structures. The table below lists the subunits for each class of organic molecule. Even lipids are generated by combining separate fatty acid chemical components. Each has a different function and purpose in living organisms. The combination of these different types of subunits is what determines the properties and function of the macromolecule. Perform the following activity to review the relationship between polymers (macromolecules) and monomers (smaller subunits). Indicate the macromolecule composed of each subunit. You will begin by learning about carbohydrates in the next topic page. In the remainder of this unit, you will be exploring the chemical structures of the four major types of biological macromolecules. Different representations of methane, ammonia, and albuterol are shown in the table below. 3D-Structural images are seen in the Jmol images at the right of each row. You can manipulate the 3D-structures by placing the cursor in the window and moving the mouse. You should understand the relationship between the 2D-structural representation and the 3D-structural representation. Thiols (-SH) found on proteins. Carbonyls (=O) found on carbohydrates. Esters (-C=O-O) found in lipids. Charged functional groups play key roles in biological systems. Note that when these groups are in their uncharged state they can be considered to be polar functional groups. The key charged functional groups are: Display a chemical drawing for each of the above functional groups.  The Learn By Doing link below will open the Functional Groups Glossary. We will use this Glossary extensively. It contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Click on "Learn By Doing," below, to enter the tutorial. The functional groups are listed. Functional groups can be divided into three groups based on their physical properties. There are the non-polar groups, the polar groups, and the charged groups. Replace Functional Groups with revised version Some lipids bury the non-polar section of the molecule by the forming lipid bilayers, which shape the boundary of all cells The key non-polar functional groups are: Also, long chain alkanes - (CH2)n, found in lipids are among the non-polar functional groups. The key polar functional groups are: Biological systems use only a small subset of the total number of elements (approximately 10 %) found in the periodic table. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. Charged functional groups play key roles in biological systems. Note that when these groups are in their uncharged state, they can be considered to be polar functional groups. The key charged functional groups are: The phosphate diester is always negatively charged at neutral pH. In the tutorial below, the functional groups are organized based on properties. The tutorial is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Properties: The radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property. The functional groups that exhibit the selected property will then be highlighted. The [?] buttons enable you to display the definition of each of the properties; click once to display the definition and click again to return to the functional groups panel.  The functional groups column shows the names and chemical structures of important functional groups in biology. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups. Here you will learn about the various functional groups and their properties; that is, their polarity, electrical charge, and solubility properties. Functional groups can be categorized into three groups: nonpolar groups, polar groups, and charged groups. The properties of each group willl be discussed next. Some lipids bury the nonpolar section of the molecule by forming lipid bilayers, which shape the boundaries of all cells. The key nonpolar functional groups are: Also, long chain alkanes, (CH2)n, found in lipids, are among the nonpolar functional groups. The key polar functional groups are: The key charged functional groups are: The phosphate diester is always negatively charged at neutral pH.  The link below will open the Functional Groups Glossary. We will use this glossary extensively. It contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Click on "Learn By Doing" below, to enter the tutorial. The functional groups are listed in the center column. Replace Functional Groups with revised version  New Functional Groups LBD Functional groups can be divided into three groups based on their physical properties. There are the non-polar groups, the polar groups, and the charged groups. Some lipids bury the non-polar section of the molecule by the forming lipid bilayers, which shape the boundary of all cells The key non-polar functional groups are: Also, long chain alkanes - (CH2)n, found in lipids are among the non-polar functional groups. The key polar functional groups are: Charged functional groups play key roles in biological systems. Note that when these groups are in their uncharged state they can be considered to be polar functional groups. These macromolecules are probably already familiar to you, because they make up the nutrients you ingest every time you eat.  Jmols from Modern Biology: unit 4-Basis of Molecular Biology, mod 9- Double Helix, p58  Web page directory path: _u4_molecularbiology/_m0_structures/x-oli-workbook_page/intro_Double_Helical.xml Instructions: The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix which is represented by either a 2D image (middle) or a 3D Jmol (right). Use the interactive 3D Jmol image to explore these features of the double helix:. Instructions: The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix which is represented by either a 2D image (above) or a 3D Jmol (below). Click on the checkboxes to highight the A-T and C-G basepairs. Here we will explore the process by which simple carbohydrates are linked together using a condensation reaction.  As described previously the aldehyde form of aldoses and ketone form of ketoses spontaneously form five and six member ring structures called furanoses and pyranoses respectively. This is illustrated below. Furthermore, this ring closure is freely reversible, which allows the alpha form of the ring to be in equilibrium with the beta form. The equation for the formation of the glycosidic bond is given below. This type of reaction is referred to as a condensation reaction. These combined forward and reverse reactions (condensation and hydrolysis) form the basis for the creation of most of the covalent assemblies in biological systems.  While all linkages between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and every hydroxyl of a second carbohydrate are possible, it is important to understand, that in biological systems, very little is left to chance, and in fact, every reaction that takes place in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme. Just as we have stated that bioselectivity dictates that D carbohydrates are used by biological systems, the formation of glycosidic bonds is catalyzed by specific enzymes that direct the formation of specific glycosidic bonds between the anomeric carbon of one defined carbohydrate and a specific hydroxyl function of a defined second carbohydrate. In fact, in biological systems it is quite easy to convert between the two forms using catalysts. The unique functional group associated with that category defines each of the categories. What must remain constant in the representation of these structures?  One of these structures is very important to the biological system: D-ribose. An expansive tree on structures can be built starting with the simplest aldose. While all of these structures are possible starting with D-glyceraldehyde, the biological system only utilizes a few of these structures. Of the hexoses, the predominant compound is D-glucose, one of the most prevalent sugars in biology. It is useful to provide shorthand notations and alternative ways of representing the carbohydrates. Below are equivalent alternative representations of the glucose and ribose. The form on the right is typically found in books and manuscripts. The five (ribose) and six (glucose) membered aldoses have been depicted in their linear form. However, these compounds will spontaneously form 5 member or 6 member ring structures if possible. These are more stable forms of the compounds. As previously mentioned, compounds will spontaneously form 5 or 6 member rings if possible. For aldoses this is possible because of the reactive character of the aldehyde group.  The drawing below shows not only the possible structures resulting from the ring closure but also shows the more traditional representation of these structures in their ring configuration. The central image shows how the two furanose forms of ribose are generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window.  The hexoses are capable of forming a six member pyranose ring by the same mechanism. Ring formation in glucose is shown in the diagram below. As with ribose, a new chiral center is formed, giving two possible forms of glucose, alpha and beta. This category of carbohydrates is, thus, referred to as aldoses. Carbohydrates containing this ketone group are referred to as ketoses. The central image shows how the two pyranose forms of glucose that can be generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. Galactose is one of the monosaccharides that make up lactose, or milk sugar. There are enzyme catalysts capable of inter-converting galactose to glucose by inverting the chiral center. In the case of a four carbon ketose, which is formed by the addition of a C(H2O) group below the ketone group in dihydroxyacetone phosphate, the new chiral center can be either D or L. In general, only the D structures of the ketoses are used by biological systems due to bioselectivity.  While it is clear that many ketose structures are possible, only a few are used in biological systems and the focus for this course will be on the hexose D-fructose. In this case the selectivity is based on structural discrimination and will apply to all of the carbohydrates.  You should convince yourself that it is not possible to superimpose the bottom two structures. They are in fact different structures. In this case the enzymes can discriminate between D and L carbohydrates. Thus as a general rule, all carbohydrates in biological systems are D. (C(H2O))n The most common carbohydrate in nature is glucose, which has the general formula (C(H2O))6 or C6H12O6. power movement or build new macromolecules). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism section of the course. In this case, the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose, but the end result is the formation of a matrix. Just as we identified a peptido-glycan as a conjunction (conjugation) of a peptide with a polysaccharide, other complex carbohydrates are conjugated to other molecules to form glycoproteins (carbohydrates linked to proteins) and glycolipids (carbohydrates linked to lipids). Because a very large number of structures can be made from a few monosaccharides (simple carbohydrates), a very large number of different structures can be made from a few simple carbohydrates, as will be seen later. All living organisms contain four major classes of macromolecules, one of which is carbohydrates. Carbohydrates also function as structural materials, and in cellular signaling and recognition. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before starting, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Here we will focus on some of the biologically important di- and polysaccharides with an emphasis on the ability to identify and describe the structures not the ability to draw the structures. Cellulose is an unbranched polymer, analogous to amylose; however, the linkages between the glucose subunits are beta-1,4, rather than alpha-1,4.  Another demonstration of bioselectivity is at play in the discrimination between cellulose and amylose by our digestive system. The difference is significant because it prevents humans from being able to use cellulose as a glucose source, while we are able to use glycogen and starch. Humans do not posses the enzyme that hydrolyzes the beta-1,4 link in cellulose.  Hetero-Polysaccharides: An enormous set of possibilities for structures exist if one considers that variations can occur between the orientation of the glycosidic bond (alpha vs. beta), the sites to which the bond can be made on an adjacent monosaccharide, the number of different carbohydrates involved (glucose, galactose, ribose, etc), and the order in which they appear.  Such variation, even when a few monosaccharides are included, can give rise to an enormous number of uniquely recognizable structures. In some cases these varied structures can be attached to proteins and lipids to be used as identification/signaling devices on the surface of cells.  Many other hetero-polysaccharides exist to carryout a variety of functions within an organism. However, as implied by the name, the peptido-glycan is a covalent complex between a polysaccharide (glycan) and a peptide (a fragment of a protein). In the bacterial peptido-glycan, the linear hetero-polysaccharide chains are linked together by covalent bonds using a peptide as the linker.  Two of the most common disaccharides are lactose, or milk sugar, and sucrose, or common table sugar. disaccharide formed from two different monosaccharides. In the case of lactose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of galactose.  In the case of sucrose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of fructose. A third disaccharide that provides a transition to the common polysaccharides is maltose, a homo-disaccharide. Maltose is commonly found as a dietary supplement and naturally is produced as an intermediate breakdown product of starch. As such it also represents the basic repeating unit of the polysaccharides starch and glycogen.  Homopolysaccharides: Three major homopolymers found in nature are starch, glycogen and cellulose. Amylose is a linear polymer of glucose subunits linked end-to-end by alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bonds. For glycogen, there is no linear form, but there is a highly branched form that resembles amylopectin with branch points separated by only 8-10 glucose subunits along the backbone. Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. The different organic groups are referred to as “R-groups”. There are 20 different R-groups commonly found in nature. Other times, the entire molecule is represented in a diagramatic fashion, such as in the “building block” representation. This model enables you to more easily visualize the important aspects of the molecule, though information about structural form is lacking. Other times, the entire molecule is represented in a diagramatic fashion, such as in the “building block” representation. This model enables you to more easily visualize the important aspects of the molecule, though information about structural form is lacking. Look at the two images below. There are 20 different R groups commonly found in nature. Take a look at some of the representations below. (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool.) Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biomolecules we will examine in this unit. Critical to our diet, protein can be found in animal products like meats and cheeses, as well as, in plant products like beans and grains. Kwashiorkor, which causes a distinct swelling of the abdomen, is often seen in malnourished children who lack sufficient protein in their diets. There are many different types of proteins, and each type has a special function to perform in living organisms. The following list represents just a sampling of the many things proteins can do in living systems. Proteins that catalyze reactions are called enzymes. Hemoglobin is a protein that is found in high concentrations in red blood cells. Hemoglobin carries oxygen from our lungs to our tissues. Protein receptors found in the lining of your nose recognize and bind to chemicals in the air, which triggers a message to the brain indicating the presence of a certain smell. Proteins can facilitate mechanical movement. Some of the major types of proteins and their functions are summarized in the table below. A completed polypeptide is directional; it has two different ends. The oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin, also contains heme groups. The folding process can be reversible, meaning that a folded protein can unfold and then refold. However, unfolding can also be irreversible, where the unfolded protein chains tangle with each other, forming an aggregate and precipitating out of solution. This is often referred to as a denatured state. Conditions that cause proteins to unfold and denature are extremes of temperature and pH. Cooking denatures proteins by heating so they unfold and denature. The same effect occurs when proteins are exposed to the low pH in our stomach. Although many factors stabilize the final shape of a protein, the most importantfact is the hydrophobic effect. Myoglobin is responsible for binding oxygen in muscles. Heme groups also are present in the oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin. The folding process can be reversible, meaning that a folded protein can unfold and then refold. However, unfolding can also be irreversible, where the unfolded protein chains tangle with each other, forming an aggregate and precipitating out of solution. This is often referred to as a denatured state. Conditions that cause proteins to unfold and denature are extremes of temperature and pH. Cooking denatures proteins by heating so they unfold and denature. The same effect occurs when proteins are exposed to the low pH in your stomach. Although many factors stabilize the final shape of a protein, the most important factor is the hydrophobic effect. Myoglobin is responsible for binding oxygen in muscles. Heme groups also are present in the oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin. The folding process can be reversible, meaning that a folded protein can unfold and then refold. However, unfolding can also be irreversible, where the unfolded protein chains tangle with each other, forming an aggregate and precipitating out of solution. This is often referred to as a denatured state. Conditions that cause proteins to unfold and denature are extremes of temperature and pH. Cooking denatures proteins by heating so they unfold and denature. The same effect occurs when proteins are exposed to the low pH in your stomach. Although many factors stabilize the final shape of a protein, the most important factor is the hydrophobic effect. The biological function of most proteins involves binding to something else. The binding event may be the first step in transport, signaling, regulation, or an enzyme-catalyzed reaction. Oxygen is a ligand when it binds to hemoglobin (a protein) during oxygen transport to the tissues. Sometimes ligands are given special names to remind us of their function. Binding proteins have binding sites for their ligand (L). Generally, a higher degree of complementarity leads to tighter binding and a more specific interaction. The interactions between proteins and their ligands are incredibly diverse, but they all share some basic ground rules. Protein-ligand binding is: Enzymes are proteins that have the ability to bind substrate in their active site and then chemically modify the bound substrate, converting it to a different molecule — the product of the reaction. Substrates bind to enzymes just like ligands bind to proteins. However, when substrates bind to enzymes, they undergo an enzyme-induced chemical change, and are converted to products. You can often recognize that a protein is an enzyme by its name. Other enzymes are known by a common name, such as pepsin, which is an enzyme that aids in the digestion of proteins in your stomach by breaking the peptide bonds in the proteins. Enzymes are catalysts, meaning that they make a reaction go faster, but the enzymes themselves are not altered by the overall reaction. Examine this image to see how enzymes work. Enzymes are generally quite specific for their substrates. Enzymes are proteins that have the ability to bind substrate in their active site and then chemically modify the bound substrate, converting it to a different molecule — the product of the reaction. Substrates bind to enzymes just like ligands bind to proteins. However, when substrates bind to enzymes, they undergo an enzyme-induced chemical change, and are converted to products. You can often recognize that a protein is an enzyme by its name. Other enzymes are known by a common name, such as pepsin, which is an enzyme that aids in the digestion of proteins in your stomach by breaking the peptide bonds in the proteins. Enzymes are catalysts, meaning that they make a reaction go faster, but the enzymes themselves are not altered by the overall reaction. Examine this image to see how enzymes work. Enzymes are generally quite specific for their substrates. The process in which an enzyme can facilitate a chemical reaction is actually a series of steps termed the catalytic cycle. This cycle is illustrated in the diagram above. Using what you have learned about enzymes match the letter with the correct molecule identification and match the numbers with the correct description of each step of the cycle. Enzymes catalyze many different types of chemical reactions. Some of the reactions are synthetic and result in products that are more complex than the original substrates. This is often done by binding two substrates together. Synthetic metabolic pathways like this are called anabolic pathways. Other enzymes catalyze reactions that reduce the substrate to simpler products. These enzymes catalyze reactions in catabolic pathways. Unfortunately, in many adults the ability to produce lactase is diminished. Without adequate lactase, ingested lactose from milk and cheese is not broken down and absorbed in the small intestine. Instead, the lactose goes to the large intestine, where it is converted into large volumes of carbon dioxide (CO2) gas by the bacteria in the large intestine. These individuals are lactose intolerant and should avoid eating foods with high milk content. First, the enzyme binds to the substrate and slightly distorts its shape. An analogy for this effect is a ski hill, with skiers at the bottom of one side of the hill representing substrates, skiers on the top of the hill representing activated substrates, and the products being the number of skiers that ski down the other side. If the height of the hill is lowered (due to the presence of the enzyme), then more skiers can make it to the top, increasing the number that ski down to become products. The activity of an enzyme (its ability to convert substrate to product), depends on a number of parameters that are listed below. Many of these parameters can help control the activities of enzymes to optimize the utilization of cellular resources. The activity of an enzyme (its ability to convert substrate to product), depends on a number of parameters that are listed below. Many of these parameters can help control the activities of enzymes to optimize the utilization of cellular resources. Lactase is produced in the intestinal tract of mammals and breaks the sugar in milk, lactose, into the monosaccharides glucose and galactose. Without adequate lactase, ingested lactose from milk and cheese is not broken down, and therefore cannot be absorbed in the small intestine. Instead, the lactose goes to the large intestine, where it is eaten by bacteria that live there. Unfortunately, as many individuals age, their ability to produce lactase is diminished. This is especially true for individuals from Asian, African, Native American, or Mediterranean descent. The incidence of lactose intolerance is lower for those of European descent. Approximately one in seven American adults suffer from lactose intolerance, and African Americans can show signs of lactose intolerance as early as two years of age. These individuals are lactose intolerant and should avoid eating foods with high lactose content, such as milk. Milk products, such as buttermilk, yogurt, and cheese, cause less of a problem because the amount of lactose in these products is reduced by the microorganisms that are used to make them. Lactose intolerant individuals can consume milk under certain conditions. The table below contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. The functional groups are listed.  Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. In the activity below, the radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property and hilight the functional groups that exhibit the selected property. The [?] buttons display the definition of each of the properties. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. As the mixture settles, the oil collects in larger and larger drops until it only exists as a layer, or phase, above the vinegar. A similar effect occurs in biological systems. You may recall that processes that increase the disorder of a system are more favorable. Rather, the non-polar parts are forced together into a non-polar aggregate, leaving the polar part of the molecule to interact with the aqueous phase. A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered.  Cells operate within the laws of chemistry and physics, and utilize only chemical reactions that occur naturally. Many of these reactions are extremely slow, requiring years to eons to complete. This paper will take decades to degrade in the environment and mammalian systems lack the enzyme that is specific to degrade cellulose, however, a bacteria found in the stomach of cows and other ruminants have the ability to digest cellulose and provide glucose to the cow. For a cow to survive it cannot wait decades to digest a meal of hay.  Enzymes bind to substrates in a manner similar to the way myoglobin binds oxygen or the estradiol binds to the estrogen receptor, but enzymes can go one step further. In this case the ligand is specifically referred to as the substrate (the molecule that the enzyme will convert to product) and it binds to a specific binding region of the enzyme referred to as the active site. Once bound, the ligand, or substrate, can either simply reversibly come off the enzyme, or it can be converted into a new compound or product. The general form of the reaction is: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E Where E = enzyme, S = substrate, ES = the enzyme•substrate complex, and P = product. The square brackets around the ES complex indicate that the complex is inferred, because it is very unstable and generally not directly measurable. Enzymes are not consumed in the process, but are recycled for further catalysis. Proteins do not exist as linear threads in the cells but rather as spontaneously folded higher order structures.  The oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin, is shown on the left. The heme groups, which are colored purple, are responsible for binding the oxygen. The protein component of hemoglobin is colored gray.  Secondary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;delay 0.25;select *:B and 4-18;define secondary selected;select all;color backbone cpk;set windowCentered off;center 11:B.CA;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 200;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;labels off;select secondary;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent;delay 0.2;select (not secondary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.15;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.1;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.1;backbone 25;color backbone [255,255,255];delay 0.1;backbone off;moveto 1 -200 966 -164 109 250;select all')describes the local structure of just the main chain atoms. Each subunit of hemoglobin contains a number of alpha-helical secondary structural elements. Clicking on the button will show you one of these.  Tertiary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select *:B;define tertiary selected;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;labels off;select tertiary;backbone 150;color group;delay 0.5;select (not tertiary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.2;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.2;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.2;backbone 25;delay 0.1;select all;backbone off;select tertiary;backbone 150;delay 1.0;set windowCentered off;center *:B;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 150;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of both the mainchain and sidechain atoms of one poly-peptide chain. You can click herescript('select all;color backbone chain') to color each of the separate chains in hemoglobin. Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biomolecules we will examine in this unit. Critical to our diet, protein can be found in animal products like meats and cheeses, as well as in plant products like beans and grains. Kwashiorkor, which causes a distinct swelling of the abdomen, is often seen in malnourished children who lack sufficient protein in their diets. There are many examples of proteins that require more than one peptide chain to be functional. In the case of the estrogen receptor two identical peptide chains come together to form the functional protein. This is called a homo dimer. Hemoglobin is composed of four peptide chains; two identical alpha chains and two identical beta chains.  The interaction of the subunits in a quaternary complex represents another form of equilibrium. The individual polypeptide chains are made separately and must associate through specific complimentary interactions. Since this dimer is a combination of two different peptides it is called a heterodimer. Because of this partial double bond character, rotation around the C-N peptide bond is prevented and thus the peptide bond is planar. This is the first and a major constraint placed on protein folding. Two possible orientations of the planer peptide bond are possible, the trans from and the cis form. Although both are planer, the trans form is more stable and this form is shown in the diagram below. It should be noted that not all phi-psi angles are possible due to steric interference, electronic repulsion by side chains of the same charge and other factors all of which represent constraints in the folding of a protein. Alpha Helix One of the constrained pairs of - angles gives rise to the secondary structural element referred to as the -helix. When the and angles are close to 180 degrees the peptide chain is fully extended, the -strand conformation exists. A -sheet forms when several -strands run either parallel or anti-parallel to each other. The side chains project above and below the plane of the -sheet. Because of this there is no rotation about the bond and therefore, proline terminates helix formation and places further constraints on the folding of the peptide chain. The non-covalent interactions between the side chains include the following: Protein folding and stabilization is driven primarily by non-covalent interactions. The sulfhydryl group is highly reactive and will covalently bond with another sulfhydryl group to form a covalent disulfide bond (a cystine residue). The disulfide bond is reversible and is sensitive to the environment. Each nucleotide is made up of a pentose sugar, a nitrogenous base, and a phosphate group. RNA is composed of a single strand and it is involved in protein synthesis. RNA is composed of a pentose sugar (ribose), a nitrogenous base, and a phosphate group. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. In eukaryotic cells, RNA is transported to the cytoplasm, where protein synthesis takes place. Each nucleotide contains three building blocks: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous base is a type of organic molecule that consists of one or two ring structures. Note that the term “base” is used here to refer to a specific part of the nucleic acid structure; the meaning is very different from the use of the term “base” in the discussion of pH and acid-base chemistry. There are five different nitrogenous bases that can be found in various nucleotides. In RNA, thymine is replaced by uracil (U). Nucleotides can also differ in the type of sugar they contain. All sugars found in nucleotides are pentose sugars, which means they have five carbons; however, there can be different pentose sugars. RNA, on the other hand, contains ribose. Finally, nucleotides can differ in the number of phosphate groups they contain. We will look at this molecule in greater detail in the Metabolism unit. Each nucleotide contains three building blocks: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous base is a type of organic molecule that consists of one or two ring structures. Note that the term “base” is used here to refer to a specific part of the nucleic acid structure; the meaning is very different from the use of the term “base” in the discussion of pH and acid-base chemistry. There are five different nitrogenous bases that can be found in various nucleotides. In RNA, thymine is replaced by uracil (U). Nucleotides can also differ in the type of sugar they contain. All sugars found in nucleotides are pentose sugars, which means they have five carbons; however, there can be different pentose sugars. RNA, on the other hand, contains ribose. Finally, nucleotides can differ in the number of phosphate groups they contain. We will look at this molecule in greater detail in the Metabolism unit. How are nucleotide building blocks connected to each other? The alternating "phosphate - sugar - phosphate" building blocks form a backbone of the linear polymer. Thus, the sequence GAGGCT is shorthand for 5’-GAGGCT-3’. How are nucleotide building blocks connected to each other? The alternating "phosphate - sugar - phosphate" building blocks form a backbone of the linear polymer. Thus, the sequence GAGGCT is shorthand for 5’-GAGGCT-3’. How can a simple molecule made of repeating nucleotides contain all instructions for complicated living beings like ourselves? It has to come from the bases! The sequence of these 4 bases can provide all the instructions needed to build any living organism! It might be hard to imagine that 4 different “letters” can communicate so much information. But think about the English language, which can represent a huge amount of information using just 26 letters. Even more profound is the binary code used to write computer programs. This code contains only ones and zeros...and think of all the things your computer can do! The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside, and the bases are on the inside of the helix. Adenine (a purine) always pairs with thymine (a pyrimidine); guanine (a purine) always pairs with cytosine (a pyrimidine). The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside, and the bases are on the inside of the helix. Adenine (a purine) always pairs with thymine (a pyrimidine); guanine (a purine) always pairs with cytosine (a pyrimidine). The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside, and the bases are on the inside of the helix. Adenine (a purine) always pairs with thymine (a pyrimidine); guanine (a purine) always pairs with cytosine (a pyrimidine). Bases form pairs (base pairs) in a very specific way. The figure shows how A (Adenine) pairs with T (Thymine) and G (Guanine) pairs with C (Cytosine). RNA, on the other hand, is involved in actually building the proteins. RNA, on the other hand, is involved in actually building the proteins. The term “central dogma of molecular biology” has been historically used to describe the flow of genetic information in living organisms. We next consider what this information is and how it flows. RNA that contains instructions for making proteins is called messenger RNA (mRNA). In the cytoplasm, mRNA binds to ribosomes, catalytic machines made up of specialized proteins and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). rRNA is one type of functional RNA does not code for protein and is not translated. Transfer RNA (tRNA) is anther such molecule. Instead, nerve cells make RNA copies of the genes that encode proteins required for signaling. 5’...AATTGCGC...3’ ,3’...TTAACGCG...5’ and the bottom stand is used to produce the copy, the sequence of the RNA will be 5’ ...AAUUGCG...3’. Before you continue, answer these review questions to make sure you understand some important concepts related to transcription. These three bases are called codons or triplets. In the exercise below, you will simulate the process of transcription and translation and build a small protein. In this module you learned that nucleotides are the monomers that make up the nucleic acid polymers. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a nucleotide. It consists of a single adenosine (the base adenine and the sugar ribose), linked to three phosphate ions. Cells of all organisms make ATP by breaking down carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. This job goes to other more stable compounds, like fats and sugars. The bond between the second and the third phosphates can be broken in a reaction producing ADP (adenosine diphosphate) with 'di' indicating two phosphate groups. Sometimes you use a word to represent the quantity of something. You can count cookies by the dozen. While one dozen is equal to 12, one mole is equal to 6.02 x 10^23. All of the possible hyrogen bonds may be useful later as we explore multiple structures especially for RNA. Using this characteristic it is possible to measure the concentration of DNA in a solution using spectrophotometry (measuring the amount of light of a specific wavelength of light absorbed by a solution).  The chains are antiparallel. This means that the since the backbne has a 5' end and a 3' end, two strands hydridized to each other must have one strand oriented 5' to 3' and the complimentary strand 3' to 5' as illustrated below. As written this is a duplex of two strands of RNA. A nucleic acid consists of a chain of nucleotides. Lipids are a diverse group of macromolecules united by their hydrophobic, nonpolar nature. We are most familiar with the lipids known as fats. They also provide structural support and cushioning for many animals. Some dietary fats are healthier than others. In this module, you will learn about the differences between saturated, unsaturated, and trans fats. You will learn more about cholesterol in this module as well. Lipids are a diverse group of macromolecules united by their hydrophobic, nonpolar nature. We are most familiar with the lipids known as fats. They also provide structural support and cushioning for many animals. Some dietary fats are healthier than others. In this module, you will learn about the differences between saturated, unsaturated, and trans fats. People are most familiar with fats, but there are types of lipids that are not fats. You will learn more about cholesterol in this module as well. Lipids include a distinct group of compounds that are united by two common features. First, they are largely nonpolar in nature. Lipids also provide insulation from the environment for plants and animals. Lipids include fats, oils, waxes, phospholipids, and steroids. The table below summarizes the charateristics of lipids. Because lipids are such a diverse group of biomolecules, we will study them in four categories. Waxes are nonpolar lipids that form protective layers on plants and animals. Waxes are the simplest lipids in nature, consisting of two long hydrocarbon chains linked in the middle by an ester group. This family of lipids includes many hormones and cholesterol. Hormones (such as estrogen and testosterone) are used by some animals as long-distance messengers. While most people are familiar with cholesterol, they often don’t realize how important it is for healthy function. Cholesterol has many functions. Cholesterol is used to build steroid hormones, including testosterone and estradiol, which are secreted by the sex organs. Other organisms use different steroids for this function. Although some cholesterol is essential for healthy physiological functioning, excess cholesterol can lead to health problems. These carriers are called lipoproteins. LDL is often referred to as “bad” cholesterol, because excess LDL levels have been linked to plaque deposition in the arteries, which can result in heart disease. Another type of lipoprotein, known as high-density lipoprotein (or HDL) transports cholesterol to the liver, where it is often turned into bile salts and excreted. HDL is often referred to as “good” cholesterol, because high blood concentrations of HDL have been linked to a decreased risk of heart disease. Exercise and proper diet can increase HDL levels. Increasing intake of unsaturated fats and decreasing intake of saturated fats is also a good strategy for increasing HDL levels. Examine the table below providing interpretation of cholesterol numbers including LDL and HDL. Phospholipids are an important class of lipids found in the membranes of all cells and organelles. Together, the phosphate and the glycerol make up the “head” of the phospholipid. An amphipathic molecule has both a hydrophilic end and a hydrophobic end. But phospholipids have a “split personality” in this regard. If enough phospholipids are present, they will form a bilayer. View the animation that demonstrates the formation of micelles and bilayers. With their “split personality,” phospholipids are able to play a very important role in biology. See animation below. First, it is fluid. This allows cells to change shape, permitting growth and movement. The fluidity of the membrane is regulated by the types of phospholipids and the presence of cholesterol. Second, the phospholipid membrane is selectively permeable. The ability of a molecule to pass through the membrane depends on its polarity and to some extent its size. This feature of membranes is very important because hemoglobin, the protein that carries oxygen in our blood, is contained within red blood cells. Oxygen must be able to freely cross the membrane so that hemoglobin can get fully loaded with oxygen in our lungs, and deliver it effectively to our tissues. Glucose is too large to pass through the membrane unassisted and a special transporter protein ferries it across. Certain types of diabetes are caused by misregulation of the glucose transporter. The conduction of electrical signals in your nerves is based on the ability of cells to control Na+ and K+ levels. Selectively permeable membranes allow cells to keep the chemistry of the cytoplasm different from that of the external environment. It also allows them to maintain chemically unique conditions inside their organelles. Lipids are a diverse group. However, they are united as a group because they are mostly made of hydrocarbons. Maintaining proper lipid levels is also essential to human health. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. The fatty acids are usually 16 to 22 carbons long, but can range from 4 to 36 carbons in length. Layers of fat also surround the vital organs of animals to help cushion and protect them. In some animals, layers of fat under the skin provide insulation. These are all examples of animals with thick insulating “blubber” beneath the skin. Because all the bonds are single, the entire fatty acid can adopt a linear shape. Saturated fats have three saturated fatty acid “tails” — all of which are linear in shape. These are usually produced by animals; everyday examples of saturated fats include lard and real butter. Unsaturated fats have at least one unsaturated fatty acid. They are called oils, and are commonly produced by plants; everyday examples include olive oil, corn oil, and canola oil. A diet rich in saturated fats may contribute to formation of plaques in the arteries (atherosclerosis) and increase your risk of heart disease. To reduce this risk, it is recommended that you replace some foods rich in saturated fats (e.g. fatty cuts of pork, beef, and high-fat dairy products like butter) with foods that provide unsaturated fats (available in foods like olive oil, canola oil, seafood, and walnuts). Such a shift is believed to help improve blood cholesterol levels and may reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease. In the diagram above, you see the physical behavior of two different triglycerides (with saturated and unsaturated fatty acids) at three distinct temperatures. Figure 1 shows that at a temperature of 0oC (freezing), both types of fatty acids stack neatly. At 16oC (Fig. Since the early 20th century, modified vegetable oils have been produced that are solid at room temperature. Examples include margarine and vegetable shortening. As a side effect of the chemical transformation, the orientation of some of the remaining double bonds is shifted. Historically, it was believed that synthetic trans unsaturated fats would be as “good for you” as natural unsaturated fats. However, recent studies have shown that consumption of trans fat may pose a significant health risk. Consuming a lot of trans fat can lead to an increase in levels of low-density lipoproteins (LDL). This in turn is associated with a higher risk of heart disease. Many fast food restaurants have recently banned the use of trans fats, and many products have been reformulated so that they are much lower in trans fats. However, trans fats are still a common ingredient in many processed foods; close reading of ingredient and nutrition labels is recommended. Mitosis results in two identical diploid cells and occurs in somatic cells. Meiosis results in four unique haploid cells and takes place in the gonads. Two different processes are necessary because they serve two different functions. Mitosis allows for growth of an organism and replacement of cells. Meiosis allows for sexual reproduction. Take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. Consider whether you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of the learning objectives. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this final activity, you will rate your ability to perform each learning outcome. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions you still have regarding the content to your instructor when you are finished. Mitosis results in two identical diploid cells and occurs in somatic cells. Meiosis results in four unique haploid cells and takes place in the gonads. Two different processes are necessary because they serve two different functions. Mitosis allows for growth of an organism and replacement of cells. Meiosis allows for sexual reproduction. Take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. Consider whether you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of the learning objectives. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this final activity, you will rate your ability to perform each learning outcome. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions you still have regarding the content to your instructor when you are finished. Cells can be divided into two major groups: prokaryotes (cells without a nucleus) and eukaryotes (cells containing a nucleus). Eukaryotic cells are larger and contain organelles that are specifically related to different cellular functions. Two types of eukaryotic cells are plant cells and animal cells. However, there are several structures that distinguish the two types of cells. Animal cells lack both of these structures. The membrane mediates communication to the external environment. Some particles are able to simply diffuse across the membrane. In other situations, special proteins are required to help facilitate the movement. Review the learning objectives for this unit. Do you think you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of these objectives? If so, you will be ready for the assessment. If not, consider reviewing content related to these objectives before attempting the assessment. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each objective. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions to your instructor when you are finished. As you have learned before, living or biotic cells and organisms possess a set of characteristics that non-living or abiotic things do not. We will explore the different types of cells, and learn about their structures and functions. While all cells have similar structures, there are differences between the more ancient prokaryotic and the more recent eukaryotic cells. Also, there are structures that are only present in plant or animal cells. You learned that proteins, such as enzymes, are able to function like little molecular machines. Take a moment to review examples of each level of organization forming these building blocks using the activity below. One of the hallmarks of living systems is the ability to maintain homeostasis, or a relatively constant internal state. The microscopes we use today are far more advanced than those used in the 1600s by Antony van Leeuwenhoek, a Dutch shopkeeper who had great skill in crafting lenses. Despite the limitations of his now-ancient lenses, van Leeuwenhoek observed the movements of bacteria, other single-celled organisms and sperm. He labeled these moving microbes “animalcules”. He also confirmed van Leeuwenhoek’s 1678 discovery of bacteria and protozoa. Later advances in lenses and microscope construction enabled other scientists to see some components inside cells. By the late 1830s, scientists had closely examined many plant and animal tissues under the microscope. Comparing notes, botanist, Matthias Schleiden, and zoologist, Theodor Schwann, realized that cells were found in every tissue they had studied. A series of experiments by Louis Pasteur and Rudolf Virchow showed that living organisms could only come from other living organisms.  All known living things are made up of one or more cells. All cells arise from pre-existing cells by division. Eukaryotes are larger, and most often they are multicellular organisms, including plants, animals, and fungi. The images below show examples of a prokaryote and single-celled eukaryotic organisms. Many, but not all, organelles are structures enclosed by a membrane. The remainder of this page will focus on a handful of structures that all cells have in common. As you already know, proteins are the raw materials used to build many important structures in living systems. Finally, both prokaryotes and eukaryotes contain ribosomes. (There are many other important structures and features of cells. The table below shows only the most important structures.) The essential differences and similarities among prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells are: Eukaryotes are larger, and most often they are multicellular organisms, including plants, animals, and fungi. The images below show examples of a prokaryote and single-celled eukaryotic organisms. Many, but not all, organelles are structures enclosed by a membrane. The remainder of this page will focus on a handful of structures that all cells have in common. As you already know, proteins are the raw materials used to build many important structures in living systems. Finally, both prokaryotes and eukaryotes contain ribosomes. (There are many other important structures and features of cells. The table below shows only the most important structures.) The essential differences and similarities among prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells are: The microscopes we use today are far more advanced than those used in the 1600s by Antony van Leeuwenhoek, a Dutch shopkeeper who had great skill in crafting lenses. Despite the limitations of his now-ancient lenses, van Leeuwenhoek observed the movements of bacteria, other single-celled organisms, and sperm. He labeled these moving microbes “animalcules.” Later, he confirmed van Leeuwenhoek’s 1678 discovery of bacteria and protozoa. Later advances in lenses and microscope construction enabled other scientists to see some components inside cells. By the late 1830s, scientists had closely examined many plant and animal tissues under the microscope. Comparing notes, botanist Matthias Schleiden and zoologist Theodor Schwann realized that cells were found in every tissue they had studied. A series of experiments by Louis Pasteur and Rudolf Virchow showed that living organisms could only come from other living organisms.  All known living things are composed of one or more cells. All new cells are created by pre-existing cells dividing in two and reproducing. The microscopes we use today are far more advanced than those used in the 1600s by Antony van Leeuwenhoek, a Dutch shopkeeper who had great skill in crafting lenses. Despite the limitations of his now-ancient lenses, van Leeuwenhoek observed the movements of bacteria, other single-celled organisms, and sperm. He labeled these moving microbes “animalcules.” Later, he confirmed van Leeuwenhoek’s 1678 discovery of bacteria and protozoa. Later advances in lenses and microscope construction enabled other scientists to see some components inside cells. By the late 1830s, scientists had closely examined many plant and animal tissues under the microscope. Comparing notes, botanist Matthias Schleiden and zoologist Theodor Schwann realized that cells were found in every tissue they had studied. A series of experiments by Louis Pasteur and Rudolf Virchow showed that living organisms could only come from other living organisms.  All known living things are composed of one or more cells. All new cells are created by pre-existing cells dividing in two and reproducing.  Prokaryotic cells Eukaryotic cells Prokaryotic cells were the first cells to appear on our planet. All prokaryotes alive today are unicellular (one-celled), and include bacteria (singular form is "bacterium") and archaea (singular form is "archaean"). Prokaryotes are small cells that don't have a nucleus or membrane-bound organelles. Eukaryotic cells appeared 1.5 billion years after prokaryotes. Many prokaryotes also have external appendages such as a flagellum. Several types of RNA are involved in the process of protein synthesis, and ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is the main component of ribosomes. Both prokaryotes and eukaryotes have ribosomes, but they are different. Prokaryotic ribosomes are smaller and lighter than their eukaryotic counterparts. Note that certain abiotic entities such as viruses and prions (infectious proteins causing diseases such as mad cow disease) are also studied in biology.  Prokaryotic cells Eukaryotic cells Prokaryotic cells were the first cells to appear on our planet. All prokaryotes alive today are unicellular (one-celled), and include bacteria (singular form is "bacterium") and archaea (singular form is "archaean"). Prokaryotes are small cells that don't have a nucleus or membrane-bound organelles. Eukaryotic cells appeared 1.5 billion years after prokaryotes. Many prokaryotes also have external appendages such as a flagellum. Several types of RNA are involved in the process of protein synthesis, and ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is the main component of ribosomes. Both prokaryotes and eukaryotes have ribosomes, but they are different. Prokaryotic ribosomes are smaller and lighter than their eukaryotic counterparts. Note that certain abiotic entities such as viruses and prions (infectious proteins causing diseases such as mad cow disease) are also studied in biology. In this module we will explore the different components of the cells and examine their specialized functions. Eukaryotic cells contain compartments with specialized functions called organelles. Organelles are surrounded by membranes. The nucleus is the control center, where the blueprints of all protein products are stored. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. 22 pairs are autosomal chromosomes and are numbered 1-22. The other pair is referred to as the sex chromosomes. Females have two X chromosomes, while males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. There are several structures found within the nucleus. The most visible of these is the nucleolus. Both structures are similar to bacteria in many ways. In fact, it is now thought that they are derived from ancient bacteria that lived within larger primitive eukaryotic cells. That is, they were endosymbionts: organisms that live within a larger host. They also reproduce by division, just like bacteria! Some prokaryotes related to mitochondria and chloroplasts have remained free-living. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a series of sacs and tubes, is the assembly line for synthesis of proteins and other cellular components. In eukaryotes, ribosomes are associated with the ER, forming the rough ER due to its beaded appearance.  Vesicles and vacuoles are membrane-bound sacs that function in storage and transport. Vesicles are specialized for transport and some other functions. Their membranes can fuse with the plasma membrane, thus emptying their contents into the extracellular space. Vesicles also may fuse with the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, thus emptying their contents into those organelles. Lysosomes are vesicles found only in animal cells. Lysosomes contain powerful digestive enzymes that can recycle cellular parts or destroy external invaders. Vacuoles are specialized mainly for storage. Their membranes do not fuse with the membranes of other cellular components. Centrioles are formed by microtubules, another filament type of the cytoskeleton. All eukaryotes contain a nucleus. Animals and plants are familiar eukaryotes; in fact, all large complex organisms are eukaryotes. Fungi (the singular form is "fungus"), which include molds and mushrooms, are also eukaryotes. There are even single-celled eukaryotes, called protists. The chloroplasts provide sugar. Factories often have assembly lines that put together the company’s product. In eukaryotes, ribosomes are associated with the "rough ER," which gets its name from the beaded appearance that the ribosomes give it. Often the Golgi apparatus packages proteins in vesicles and vacuoles, which are membrane-bound sacs that function in storage and transport. Vesicles are specialized for transport and some other functions. Their membranes can fuse with the plasma membrane, allowing them to empty their contents into the extracellular space. Vesicles also may fuse with the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, allowing them to empty their contents into those organelles. Lysosomes are specialized vesicles found only in animal cells. Lysosomes contain powerful digestive enzymes that can recycle cellular parts or destroy external invaders. Vacuoles are specialized mainly for storage. Their membranes do not fuse with the membranes of other cellular components. Eukaryotic cells include other important structures not illustrated in our factory diagram; they are the cytoskeleton, actin, centrioles, microtubules, flagellum, and cilia. In our factory analogy, the cytoskeleton is represented by structural beams, as well as any transport infrastructure, like hallways, elevator tracks, or even small railroads. Centrioles are formed by microtubules, another filament type of the cytoskeleton. Click on any of the organelles in the list below. Click on the question mark (?) for help that illustrates this procedure. Do you think you can specify the functions of major organelles in eukaryotic cells? Click on the following activity to check your understanding. Eukaryotic cells are complex and organized into membrane-bound compartments, called organelles, that perform specialized functions. Organelles are similar to the specialized work areas in the factory above. The nucleus is like the factory command center, which stores the instructions needed to build its product. The chromosomes are like the different books in the factory’s control center. The nucleus is surrounded by a double-layered membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope is studded with pores that allow information from inside the nucleus to enter the cytoplasm. You can imagine that a factory command center would not be very effective if it did not have doors or windows through which to pass information to the rest of the factory. There are several important structures found within the nucleus. The most visible of these is the nucleolus. In contrast to other organelles, the nucleolus is not bound by a membrane. The cytoplasm is analogous to the factory floor, where all the work takes place. All eukaryotes contain a nucleus. Animals and plants are familiar eukaryotes; in fact, all large complex organisms are eukaryotes. Fungi (the singular form is "fungus"), which include molds and mushrooms, are also eukaryotes. There are even single-celled eukaryotes, called protists. The chloroplasts provide sugar. Factories often have assembly lines that put together the company’s product. In eukaryotes, ribosomes are associated with the "rough ER," which gets its name from the beaded appearance that the ribosomes give it. Often the Golgi apparatus packages proteins in vesicles and vacuoles, which are membrane-bound sacs that function in storage and transport. Vesicles are specialized for transport and some other functions. Their membranes can fuse with the plasma membrane, allowing them to empty their contents into the extracellular space. Vesicles also may fuse with the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, allowing them to empty their contents into those organelles. Lysosomes are specialized vesicles found only in animal cells. Lysosomes contain powerful digestive enzymes that can recycle cellular parts or destroy external invaders. Vacuoles are specialized mainly for storage. Their membranes do not fuse with the membranes of other cellular components. Eukaryotic cells include other important structures not illustrated in our factory diagram; they are the cytoskeleton, actin, centrioles, microtubules, flagellum, and cilia. In our factory analogy, the cytoskeleton is represented by structural beams, as well as any transport infrastructure, like hallways, elevator tracks, or even small railroads. Centrioles are formed by microtubules, another filament type of the cytoskeleton. Click on any of the organelles in the list below. Click on the question mark (?) for help that illustrates this procedure. Do you think you can specify the functions of major organelles in eukaryotic cells? Click on the following activity to check your understanding. Eukaryotic cells are complex and organized into membrane-bound compartments, called organelles, that perform specialized functions. Organelles are similar to the specialized work areas in the factory above. The nucleus is like the factory command center, which stores the instructions needed to build its product. The chromosomes are like the different books in the factory’s control center. The nucleus is surrounded by a double-layered membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope is studded with pores that allow information from inside the nucleus to enter the cytoplasm. You can imagine that a factory command center would not be very effective if it did not have doors or windows through which to pass information to the rest of the factory. There are several important structures found within the nucleus. The most visible of these is the nucleolus. In contrast to other organelles, the nucleolus is not bound by a membrane. The cytoplasm is analogous to the factory floor, where all the work takes place. Both animal and plant cells are eukaryotic cells. However, they both contain some specialized structures. This process is possible due to the presence of special pigments, called chlorophylls, which are found in the chloroplasts. Think about cars — while most cars have the same parts, there will be differences between a sedan and an off-road vehicle. Among animal cells, extreme examples of specialization include red blood cells (containers of hemoglobin to transport oxygen; see picture on the left) and nerve cells (dedicated to transmission and integration of signals; picture on the right). How do cells "know" when to divide? What factors control this process? These are vitally important questions with implications for how we grow, heal, and reproduce. They are also central to understanding cancer - and for developing cancer treatments. Certain cells, said to be in phase G0, do not divide further after maturing. Many nerve cells (neurons) function this way. If the brain or spine is injured the damaged cells are not readily replaced and the injury may be permanent. Normal cells usually divide only a limited number of times, and usually do so when stimulated by certain molecular signals. You also learned about some of the different kinds of cells. Take some time to review these key terms. When you’re ready, take the module quiz. Review the following key terms discussed in this module. Have you ever looked closely at the colors swirling in a soap bubble? A membrane's components are in constant motion, as if they were flowing in a river. This gives the impression of a tile mosaic, which has variously shaped and colored tiles embedded in grout. The phospholipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane. Proteins determine most of the membrane's specific functions. The plasma membrane and the membranes of the various organelles each have unique collections of proteins. First, it is fluid. This allows cells to change shape, permitting growth and movement. The fluidity of the membrane is regulated by the types of phospholipids and the presence of cholesterol. Second, the phospholipid membrane is selectively permeable. The ability of a molecule to pass through the membrane depends on its polarity and to some extent its size. This feature of membranes is very important because hemoglobin, the protein that carries oxygen in your blood, is contained within red blood cells. Oxygen must be able to freely cross the membrane so that hemoglobin can get fully loaded with oxygen in your lungs, and deliver it effectively to your tissues. Glucose is too large to pass through the membrane unassisted and a special transporter protein ferries it across. Certain types of diabetes are caused by misregulation of the glucose transporter. The conduction of electrical signals in your nerves is based on the ability of cells to control Na+ and K+ levels. Selectively permeable membranes allow cells to keep the chemistry of the cytoplasm different from that of the external environment. It also allows them to maintain chemically unique conditions inside their organelles. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation.  To keep their membranes fluid across a range of temperatures, cells alter the composition of their membranes. Phospholipids with differing fatty acid tails have different levels of mobility in the membrane. The unsaturated fatty acid tails keep membranes fluid because they are kinked and resistant to packing. In animal cells, the membrane is made up of mostly saturated fatty acids, so it is relatively stable (not too fluid). At low temperatures, cholesterol keeps the saturated fatty acid tails from packing and maintains adequate fluidity.  To keep their membranes fluid across a range of temperatures, cells alter the composition of their membranes. Phospholipids with differing fatty acid tails have different levels of mobility in the membrane. The unsaturated fatty acid tails keep membranes fluid because they are kinked and resistant to packing. In animal cells, the membrane is made up of mostly saturated fatty acids so it is relatively stable (not too fluid). At low temperatures, cholesterol keeps the saturated fatty acid tails from packing and maintains adequate fluidity. Sterols are used by some cells to maintain proper membrane fluidity. Membranes also contain proteins, which carry out many of the functions of the membrane. Some functions of membrane proteins are: In order to carry out their functions, some proteins need to be embedded in the membrane. These proteins are called integral proteins (“integral” because they are “integrated” into the membrane). Proteins that are attached to the inner or outer surface of a membrane are called peripheral proteins. The cellular or plasma membrane is a lipid bilayer composed of phospholipids and associated proteins, specialized lipids, and carbohydrates. Sterols are used by some cells to maintain proper membrane fluidity. Membranes also contain proteins, which carry out many of the functions of the membrane. Some functions of membrane proteins are: In order to carry out their functions, some proteins need to be embedded in the membrane. These proteins are called integral proteins (“integral” because they are “integrated” into the membrane). Proteins that are attached to the inner or outer surface of a membrane are called peripheral proteins. Prokaryotes are an enormously diverse group of organisms. However, they can be organized into two primary groups: bacteria and archaea. They are able to maintain membrane fluidity because of an increased concentration of unsaturated fatty acid tails found within the membrane phospholipids. Archaeans are often found living in extreme environments such as high temperature, pH, or salinity, and as such, are often called “extremophiles” (loving extreme conditions). These structural differences lead to functional differences that enable archaeans to survive in extreme environments. The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached in which the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Add ink to the beaker and watch the diffusion process. After a period of time, how has the distribution of the ink changed in the beaker? Follow the yellow ink for some time. Does its behavior change as time passes? The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached and the water in the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Add ink to the beaker and watch the diffusion process. After a period of time, how has the distribution of the ink changed in the beaker? Follow the yellow ink for some time. Does its behavior change as time passes? Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. Although they don’t interact with the lipids, their small size allows them to pass through small temporary holes in the membrane. These have difficulty crossing the membrane because of their size and poor interaction with the lipids. The last category are ionic compounds, their charge interacts very unfavorably with the lipids, making it very difficult for them to cross the membrane. Although they don’t interact with the lipids, their small size allows them to pass through small temporary holes in the membrane. These have difficulty crossing the membrane because of their size and poor interaction with the lipids. The last category is ionic compounds. Their charge interacts very unfavorably with the lipids, making it very difficult for them to cross the membrane. Notice that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane, and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. You saw, in the animation above, the cholesterol freely passing into the hydrophobic environment of the membrane. Cholesterol distributes freely in the membrane and then some fraction will dissolve in the aqueous environment of the cytoplasm. The lipid bilayer is much less permeable to the ion, because of its charge and larger size. The following simulation depicts the facilitated diffusion of glucose across the membrane using the glucose permease transporter. The following simulation depicts the facilitated diffusion of glucose across the membrane using the glucose permease transporter. This Carrier Protein Rate Curve depicts the relationship between the rate of transport and solute concentration we would expect for a carrier protein. In most cases the environment within the compartment is different from the environment in the cytoplasm. To carry out this function the lysosome maintains a very low internal pH compared to that of the cytoplasm. Thus there is a steep pH gradient across the lysosome's membrane. These protein transporters contribute to the mosaic character of the fluid mosaic character of the biological membrane. There are a variety of different structures associated with transport proteins and at the same time many transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next. In most cases the environment within the compartment is different from the environment in the cytoplasm. To carry out this function the lysosome maintains a very low internal pH compared to that of the cytoplasm. Thus there is a steep pH gradient across the lysosome's membrane. Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require transport proteins that act as channels or ports in the membrane. Even within classes of transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) there are many different structures that can discriminate between specific substances. Dozens of different transporters swirl around within the fluid membranes that enclose your cells and organelles, contributing greatly to their "mosaic" quality. In most cases, the environment within the compartment is different from the environment in the cytoplasm. To carry out this function, the lysosome maintains a very low internal pH compared to that of the cytoplasm. Thus, there is a steep pH gradient across the lysosome's membrane. To decrease the pH inside the lysosome, the concentration of protons will need to be greater inside the lysosome than in the cytoplasm. To accomplish this, protons will need to move from a low concentration to a high concentration. This process is referred to as active transport. Both ions are moved against their concentration gradients. The main stages of the process are: Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require transport proteins that act as channels or ports in the membrane. Even within classes of transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) there are many different structures that can discriminate between specific substances. Dozens of different transporters swirl around within the fluid membranes that enclose your cells and organelles, contributing greatly to their "mosaic" quality. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next. In most cases, the environment within the compartment is different from the environment in the cytoplasm. To carry out this function, the lysosome maintains a very low internal pH compared to that of the cytoplasm. Thus, there is a steep pH gradient across the lysosome's membrane. To decrease the pH inside the lysosome, the concentration of protons will need to be greater inside the lysosome than in the cytoplasm. To accomplish this, protons will need to move from a low concentration to a high concentration. This process is referred to as active transport. Both ions are moved against their concentration gradients. The main stages of the process are: Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require transport proteins that act as channels or ports in the membrane. Even within classes of transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) there are many different structures that can discriminate between specific substances. Dozens of different transporters swirl around within the fluid membranes that enclose your cells and organelles, contributing greatly to their "mosaic" quality. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next. Cystic fibrosis is an inherited condition that affects the respiratory and digestive systems in children and adults. While there is no cure for the condition, in the 1950’s, people diagnosed with cystic fibrosis were lucky if they lived long enough to go to elementary school. A diagnosis of cystic fibrosis (CF) is suspected if a patient has chronic weight loss accompanied by problems with the respiratory system. Most people with the condition are diagnosed by the time they are two years old. A century ago, cystic fibrosis was diagnosed when a doctor licked the forehead of a patient and found it to be unusually salty. While the medical equipment used to diagnose the condition today is much more professional, the same symptoms are identified. People with CF exhibit a variety of symptoms that may include: Cystic fibrosis is caused by a malfunctioning transport protein called Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator (CFTR). CFTR is located in the cells that line the respiratory tract, the pancreas, and sweat glands. People with cystic fibrosis have unusually salty sweat. Sweat glands are tubes embedded in the skin that are lined with special cells that reabsorb sodium and chloride ions from the sweat as it moves toward the surface of the skin. The channel responsible for reabsorbing chloride ions is CFTR. People with cystic fibrosis have respiratory difficulties, usually caused by unusually thick mucus in the respiratory tubes in the lungs. In the lungs, CFTR transporters secrete chloride ions into the center of the respiratory tubes. This increases the concentration of solutes in the mucus lining the tubes, which in turn causes water to flow into the space inside the tubes (yellow). Under normal conditions, this process allows for a runny mucus to line the tubes. Most of the treatments for cystic fibrosis involve making sure the lungs remain clear of the thick, sticky mucus. This can be done using drugs that thin the respiratory mucus, like Pulmozyme. A more recently discovered treatment involves the inhalation of hypertonic saline solution. This salty solution causes water to move from the cells and into the airways (via osmosis), making the mucus more watery and easier to cough up. This mechanism is referred to as endocytosis. This mechanism involves the engulfing of the matter by the plasma membrane and internalization of the engulfed material inside a cytoplasmic vesicle. Cells are also capable of recognizing specific particles and internalizing them in the same way, a process called receptor mediated endocytosis. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and its exposure to only the inside surface of the membrane is preserved. Exocytosis is just the reverse of this process with the fusion of an internal vesicle with the plasma membrane thus releasing its content to the outside. Once internalized the new vesicle fuses with a slightly acidic early endosome and subsequently with the lysosome where the contents of the original endocytic vesicle are digested and the digested products released to the cytoplasm where they are available for use by the cell. This process is depicted in the following animation. Immune cells protect the organism by recognizing foreign matter (such as bacteria). The phagosome then fuses with lysosomes (which contain digestive enzymes). The digested bacterial products are then excreted through the process of exocytosis. Facilitated diffusion and active transport are not the only ways that materials can enter or leave cells. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and the orientation of the plasma membrane are preserved. Once internalized, a new vesicle containing solid materials may fuse with a lysosome so that its solid contents are digested. There are two general forms of endocytosis: phagocytosis and pinocytosis. Phagocytosis is the uptake of large solid particles such as bacteria or cellular debris. Cells are also capable of recognizing specific particles and engulfing them in a more targeted way, a process called receptor-mediated endocytosis. Exocytosis is just the reverse of endocytosis. In exocytosis, an internal vesicle fuses with the plasma membrane and releases its contents to the outside. The following animation depicts endocytosis. Immune cells protect animals by recognizing and destroying foreign objects such as bacteria. The phagosome next fuses with lysosomes. Finally, the digested bacterial products are excreted through the process of exocytosis. Facilitated diffusion and active transport are not the only ways that materials can enter or leave cells. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and the orientation of the plasma membrane are preserved. Once internalized, a new vesicle containing solid materials may fuse with a lysosome so that its solid contents are digested. There are two general forms of endocytosis: phagocytosis and pinocytosis. Phagocytosis is the uptake of large solid particles such as bacteria or cellular debris. Cells are also capable of recognizing specific particles and engulfing them in a more targeted way, a process called receptor-mediated endocytosis. Exocytosis is just the reverse of endocytosis. In exocytosis, an internal vesicle fuses with the plasma membrane and releases its contents to the outside. The following animation depicts endocytosis. Immune cells protect animals by recognizing and destroying foreign objects such as bacteria. The phagosome next fuses with lysosomes. Finally, the digested bacterial products are excreted through the process of exocytosis. Cells continually encounter changes in their external environment. Most cells have a similar blend of solutes within them, but external fluids can vary dramatically, from pure water to brine or syrup. Cells may find themselves in three different sorts of solutions. Many medical preparations (saline solutions for nasal sprays, eye drops, and intravenous drugs) are designed to be isotonic to our cells. Very salty or sugary solutions (brines or syrups) are hypertonic to living cells. In a clinical setting, it is very important that IV (intravenous) fluids are isotonic to the patient’s blood cells. This will ensure that blood cells maintain their physical integrity because they neither shrink (due to hypertonic fluids) nor swell (due to hypotonic solutions). In fact, plant cells do best in slightly hypotonic solutions, which results in plump, healthy cells. Isotonic solutions result in somewhat limp plant cells. Plant cells are most sensitive to hypertonic solutions. This solution will kill the cells. Like your skin, the membrane interacts with the environment and controls what gets in and what gets out. However, additional features (such as eyes and a mouth) are necessary for more complex interactions with the environment. Similarly, proteins in the membrane further help the membrane control what enters and exits and regulate environmental interactions. Review the following key terms and when you’re ready, take the module quiz. The following key terms were introduced in this module. Some substances can move through simple diffusion. Others require a transport protein. Membrane transport proteins are so important that serious diseases can result when they malfunction. Review these key terms and when you’re ready, take the module quiz. The following terms were introduced in this module. The process of mitosis is divided into the following steps or phases: Anaphase: Chromosomes are sorted. Telophase: The new nuclei are formed. These cells can go through the process again to reproduce. This results in two sister chromatids that are attached to each other at the centromere. The chromosomes have not condensed enough at this point to be visible with a microscope. Centrosomes are also formed during interphase. This results in X-shaped chromosomes that are attached at the centromere. The chromosomes have not condensed enough at this point to be visible with a microscope. Centrosomes are also formed during interphase. This packaging of the chromosomes into condensed bundles makes them easier to sort, but it inhibits protein synthesis. During anaphase, the kinetochore proteins break down the microtubules attached to them and the connections between each copy of the chromosome will be broken down. The root “ana-” refers to “apart”; the chromosomes are moving apart from each other. The nonkinetochore microtubules from one pole also push on the nonkinetochore microtubules from the other pole. In telophase, the nuclei at each pole form again. The chromosomes are now separated into two identical nuclei. This is the end of mitosis. The next step will separate the cytoplasm into two cells. “Telo” comes from the Greek word for “end.” Cytokinesis is the separation of the cytoplasm into two new daughter cells. This region is called the cleavage furrow. The nucleoli disappear and the nuclear envelope begins to disintegrate. This allows cellular components to act upon the chromosomes (the chromosomes are no longer tucked away inside the nucleus). Centrioles, contained in the centrosomes formed during interphase, are areas where microtubules originate in order to help sort and organize the sister chromatids. This will determine where the chromosomes go when they are sorted. Microtubules are disassembled from the cytoplasm and reassembled into the mitotic spindle. This stage is called “prophase,” because it is a preparatory stage. “Pro-” means "before;" “phase” means “stage.” So, this is the stage before the process gets into full swing. Prometaphase is the stage between prophase and metaphase. During this stage, the nuclear envelope is fully broken down. This allows the microtubules to attach to the centromeres of the chromosomes. The centromere is the region in the center of the X-shaped chromosomes. The centromere contains proteins that hold together these two copies and can bind to the microtubules. The proteins on the centromere are called the kinetochore, and the microtubules that attach to them are called kinetochore microtubules. The microtubules that are not attached to the kinetochores are called nonkinetochore microtubules. The root “meta-” means “middle.” Each chromosome will be attached to two kinetochore microtubules. Each of these kinetochore microtubules will be attached to one of the two centrioles. This packaging of the chromosomes into condensed bundles makes them easier to sort, but it inhibits protein synthesis. During anaphase, the kinetochore proteins break down the microtubules attached to them and the connections between each copy of the chromosome will be broken down. The root “ana-” refers to “apart”; the chromosomes are moving apart from each other. The nonkinetochore microtubules from one pole also push on the nonkinetochore microtubules from the other pole. In telophase, the nuclei at each pole form again. The chromosomes are now separated into two identical nuclei. This is the end of mitosis. The next step will separate the cytoplasm into two cells. “Telo” comes from the Greek word for “end.” Cytokinesis is the separation of the cytoplasm into two new daughter cells. This region is called the cleavage furrow. Microtubules: Roles During Mitosis The nucleoli disappear and the nuclear envelope begins to disintegrate. This allows cellular components to act upon the chromosomes (the chromosomes are no longer tucked away inside the nucleus). Centrioles, contained in the centrosomes formed during interphase, are areas where microtubules originate in order to help sort and organize the sister chromatids. This will determine where the chromosomes go when they are sorted. Microtubules are disassembled from the cytoplasm and reassembled into the mitotic spindle. This stage is called “prophase,” because it is a preparatory stage. “Pro-” means "before;" “phase” means “stage.” So, this is the stage before the process gets into full swing. Prometaphase is the stage between prophase and metaphase. During this stage, the nuclear envelope is fully broken down. This allows the microtubules to attach to the centromeres of the chromosomes. The centromere is the region in the center of the X-shaped chromosomes. The centromere contains proteins that hold together these two copies and can bind to the microtubules. The proteins on the centromere are called the kinetochore, and the microtubules that attach to them are called kinetochore microtubules. The microtubules that are not attached to the kinetochores are called nonkinetochore microtubules. The root “meta-” means “middle.” Each chromosome will be attached to two kinetochore microtubules. Each of these kinetochore microtubules will be attached to one of the two centrioles. This packaging of the chromosomes into condensed bundles makes them easier to sort, but it inhibits protein synthesis. The nucleoli disappear and the nuclear envelope begins to disintegrate. This allows cellular components to act upon the chromosomes (the chromosomes are no longer tucked away inside the nucleus). This will determine where the chromosomes go when they are sorted. Microtubules are disassembled from the cytoplasm and reassembled into the mitotic spindle. This stage is called “prophase” because it is a preparatory stage. “Pro-” means before, “phase” means “stage”. So, this is the stage before the process gets into full swing. This is also an essential component of regulation. Cells that continue dividing when they should not can cause cancer. Some of these research projects are focused on cancer treatments and cures and others are focused on understanding the biology of this process. Because much of this research is focused on cancer, the terminology used is generally focused on relationship to the disease. Mutations could cause proto-oncogenes to stop working properly. Mutagens are chemicals in the environment that produce mutations. Carcinogens are specifically those mutagens that have shown that they can cause cancer. The development of cancer requires mutations in BOTH proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. A malfunctioning proto-oncogene is called an oncogene because it promotes the development of cancer. The root “proto-” refers to "before" and the root “onco-” refers to "cancer." This is also an essential component of regulation. Cells that continue dividing when they should not can cause cancer. Some of these research projects are focused on cancer treatments and cures and others are focused on understanding the biology of this process. Because much of this research is focused on cancer, the terminology used is generally focused on relationship to the disease. Mutations could cause proto-oncogenes to stop working properly. Mutagens are chemicals in the environment that produce mutations. Carcinogens are specifically those mutagens that have shown that they can cause cancer. The development of cancer requires mutations in BOTH proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. A malfunctioning proto-oncogene is called an oncogene because it promotes the development of cancer. The root “proto-” refers to "before" and the root “onco-” refers to "cancer." The root “meta-” means “middle”. Each chromosome will be attached to two kinetochore microtubules. Each of these kinetochore microtubules will be attached to one of the two centrioles. During anaphase the kinetochore proteins break down the microbules attached to them and the connections between each copy of the chromosome will be broken down. The root “ana-” refers to “apart” because the chromosomes are moving apart from each other. The non-kinetochore microtubules from one pole also push on the non-kinetochore microtubules from the other pole. In telophase, the nuclei at each pole reform. The chromosomes are now separated into two identical nuclei; this is the end of mitosis. The next step will separate the cytoplasm into two cells. “Telo” comes from the Greek word for “end.” Cytokinesis is the separation of the cytoplasm into two new daughter cells. This region is called the cleavage furrow. Use the activities on this page to review the process of mitosis. Do the activities as many times as you’d like, until you feel comfortable with the whole process. Watch the animation below, which illustrates and describes each phase of mitosis. Perform the following activity to depict each phase of mitosis. There are two ways for organisms to reproduce: asexual and sexual. Many organisms, such as bacteria, fungi, and even some plants and animals, reproduce asexually. Let’s learn more about meiosis. Both stages of meiosis consist of prophase, metaphase, anaphase and telophase, just like mitosis. The phases are labeled I in Meiosis I, and II in Meiosis II. Meiosis II is extremely similar to Mitosis, except that there are half as many chromosomes. An important feature of meiosis is the process called crossing over. So, crossing over is another process that brings variability in the offspring. Crossing over is a process in which genes swap positions on matching chromosomes. The result is a new combination of genes on each chromosome. During Metaphase I, homologous pairs of chromosomes line up on the metaphase plate. This is very different from mitosis, when sister chromatids line up, completely independent of their homologues. In Telophase I, cytokinesis occurs and two new daughter cells are formed. Asexual reproduction is efficient and fast. However, it only provides one set of genes to adapt to the environment. Think about it like a set of lottery numbers. Do you have more chances of winning if you play only one number or if you play ten numbers? Sexual reproduction, in which the genes of two parents are combined, results in more genetic variability. This enables offspring to deal more successfully with environmental change, although sexual reproduction is a more complex process and results in a smaller number of offspring. Interestingly, certain organisms that can reproduce both asexually and sexually will choose sexual reproduction only when environmental conditions are not optimal. That way, a smaller number of more variable, and thus more adaptable, offspring is produced. In optimal conditions, however, asexual reproduction is the favored mechanism. Chromatin can condense to form chromosomes during nuclear division. Chromosomes have a typical appearance and can be organized in a karyotype. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes (2n = 46). Of those 23 pairs, 22 are autosomes, and the 23rd pair are sex chromosomes. Sex chromosomes can be of two types: X and Y. Males have one X and one Y chromosome (XY), while women have two copies of the X chromosome (XX). In sexual reproduction, two reproductive cells called gametes fuse in the process of fertilization. In the human lifecycle, haploid gametes produced during meiosis fuse to form a diploid zygote, which goes through the process of mitosis to grow into an adult human. When the adult human produces haploid gametes, the process can be repeated. This shuffling of the genetic material is one of the sources of genetic variability that makes meiosis such an important process. Germ cells are diploid cells that go through the process of meiosis to form haploid gametes. This process can happen at different times, depending on the organism. They remain in the ovaries, “stuck” in the final stages of meiosis, which is not completed unless fertilization occurs. Meiosis achieves more than just halving the chromosome number. It also introduces variability in the way the genes are distributed in the gametes. In diploid cells, there are 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. One homologue comes from your mother and the other comes from your father. You may have inherited an allele for straight hair from your mother and an allele for wavy hair from your father. When meiosis takes place, the homologous chromosomes will separate, so one gamete will carry the allele for wavy hair and the other for straight hair. Each trait on each chromosome will segregate its two alleles in a completely random way. There are also other additional ways of “shuffling the cards” of genes, which explains why siblings from the same parents can be so different. There are two ways for organisms to reproduce: asexual and sexual. Many organisms, such as bacteria, fungi, and even some plants and animals reproduce asexually. Asexual reproduction is efficient and fast. However, it only provides one set of genes to adapt to the environment. Think about trying to guess a number. Do you have a better chance of guessing the number if you get one guess or if you get two guesses? Sexual reproduction, in which the genes of two parents are combined, results in more genetic variability. This enables offspring to deal more successfully with environmental change. However, sexual reproduction is a more complex process and results in a smaller number of offspring. Interestingly, certain organisms that can reproduce both asexually and sexually will choose sexual reproduction only when environmental conditions are not optimal. That way, a smaller number of more variable, and thus more adaptable, offspring is produced. In optimal conditions, however, asexual reproduction is the favored mechanism. Chromatin can condense to form chromosomes during nuclear division. Chromosomes have a typical appearance and can be organized in a karyotype. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes (2n = 46). Of those 23 pairs, 22 are autosomes, and the 23rd pair are sex chromosomes. Sex chromosomes can be of two types: X and Y. Males have one X and one Y chromosome (XY), while women have two copies of the X chromosome (XX). In sexual reproduction, two reproductive cells called gametes fuse in the process of fertilization. When the adult human produces haploid gametes, the process can be repeated. This shuffling of the genetic material is one of the sources of genetic variability that makes meiosis such an important process. Germ cells are diploid cells that go through the process of meiosis to form haploid gametes. This process can happen at different times, depending on the organism. They remain in the ovaries, “stuck” in the final stages of meiosis, which is not completed unless fertilization occurs. Meiosis achieves more than just halving the chromosome number. It also introduces variability in the way the genes are distributed in the gametes. In diploid cells, there are 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. One homologue comes from your mother and the other comes from your father. You may have inherited an allele for straight hair from your mother and an allele for wavy hair from your father. When meiosis takes place, the homologous chromosomes will separate, so one gamete will carry the allele for wavy hair and the other for straight hair. Each trait on each chromosome will segregate its two alleles in a completely random way. There are also other additional ways of “shuffling the cards” of genes, which explains why siblings from the same parents can be so different. Let’s learn more about meiosis. Both stages of meiosis consist of prophase, metaphase, anaphase and telophase, just like mitosis. The phases are labeled I in meiosis I, and II in meiosis II. Meiosis I is often referred to as the reduction division. Meiosis II is extremely similar to mitosis, except that there are half as many chromosomes. In Meiosis II, sister chromatids are separated from each other. An important feature of meiosis is the process called crossing over. So, crossing over is another process that brings variability in the offspring. Crossing over is a process in which genes swap positions on matching chromosomes. The result is a new combination of genes on each chromosome. During metaphase I, homologous pairs of chromosomes line up on the metaphase plate. This is very different from mitosis, when sister chromatids line up, completely independent of their homologues. In telophase I, cytokinesis occurs and two new daughter cells are formed. Meiosis I ends with the production of two haploid daughter cells because the homologous pairs of chromosomes have been separated. Remember that while homologous pairs of chromosomes were separated in Meiosis I, each homologous chromosome is still connected to its sister chromatid. The events in meiosis II are almost identical to the events of mitosis. In Meiosis II (which is essentially like mitosis), the sister chromatids separate from each other. Thus, as the result of meiosis, four haploid cells are produced. Note that those four cells are not always viable. In humans, male germ cells will produce four viable sperm cells. However, in the case of females, only one of the four will survive as an egg. The end result of meiosis is four unique haploid daughter cells. Genetic variability is introduced in various ways during meiosis:  Crossing over during prophase 1: crossing over introduces novel combinations of traits among offspring. Segregation of chromosomes into gametes: the maternal and the paternal copy of each chromosome pair will segregate to different gametes. Thus, the possible number of combinations is astounding: in the case of humans, with 23 chromosomes, it is 223 (8,388,608). When you add that fertilization is also a random process, you can get an idea of the incredible number of combinations of possible offspring showing up even in one family. University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC It is caused by nondisjunction, which occurs when chromosomes fail to separate properly during anaphase. Genetic problems caused by nondisjunction can be diagnosed prenatally by studying the fetus’ karyotype. A karyotype is a visual representation of the chromosomes of an individual, obtained from a small sample of cells. In fetuses, this is usually obtained from sampling either the amniotic liquid (amniocentesis) or the placenta. In nondisjunction, chromosomes are not separated correctly during metaphase I or II, resulting in gametes with too few or too many chromosomes. There are many genetic disorders associated with incorrect chromosome numbers. One of the most well known condition caused by nondisjunction is Down syndrome. Down syndrome results from nondisjunction of chromosome 21, resulting in a child with 3 copies of this chromosome (trisomy 21). Down syndrome appears in approximately 1 of every 1,000 children, and older women are at a higher risk of having babies with the condition. Chromosomal abnormalities can include sex chromosomes also. Both these conditions are relatively benign and can be corrected with hormone treatment. Note that nondisjunction due to lack of separation of sister chromatids can occur also during mitosis. Like packing household materials into a box before moving, condensing the chromosomes helps with this process. Chromosomes are condensed by wrapping them more tightly around histones (proteins found in the nucleus). After a chromosome has replicated, the two copies remain attached at a point called the centromere. Each copy of the chromosome is called a chromatid. Keeping the two copies of a single chromosome attached helps the sorting process. In human cells, there are a total of 46 chromosomes. The process of mitosis must sort these into 2 identical piles of 46 chromosomes. This is rather like sorting a sock drawer. If all the socks are loose in the drawer, it can be challenging to find the identical mate to a sock. But if the sock mates are folded together, each bundle contains both mates in the set. Both mitosis and meiosis must keep track of the chromatids on a chromosome. In the Meiosis module, you will learn that meiosis must also keep track of homologous chromosomes. Each gamete that is produced will get either the homologue with the brown version or the homologue with the blond version. Why do cells divide? Most cells in multicellular organisms are somatic cells. Somatic cells consist of all the non-reproductive cells in an organism; for example, tissue cells, nerve cells, and blood cells. Meiosis begins with germ cells. Be careful not to confuse “germ cells” with the common use of the word “germ”, which refers to any infectious microorganism. In humans, germ cells are found in the ovaries and testes. These germ cells go through the process of meiosis to produce gametes, which in animals, are sperm and egg cells. simply by turning certain genes on or off. Throughout our lives we continue to produce more genetically identical cells through the process of mitosis. These somatic cells are essential for growth and replacement of worn-out cells and tissues. Mitosis and meiosis are the processes by which cells divide and grow; their role in human growth is summarized in the diagram above. Somatic cells produced through mitosis are diploid. “Di-” means “two”, and diploid cells contain two copies of every chromosome. Humans have a total of 46 chromosomes in their diploid cells. One way to write this is "2n=46." (Down Syndrome is caused by having three copies of chromosome 21, instead of the usual two copies). Notice that there are 22 pairs of chromosomes called autosomes and there is one pair of chromosomes called sex chromosomes. Males and females have different sex chromosomes. An image like this is called a karyotype and can be used to diagnose genetic disorders in humans. Gametes are haploid cells. They contain only one copy of each chromosome. In human haploid gametes, there are 23 chromosomes. One way to write this is "1n=23." As you learned in the previous activity, two haploid cells can combine, through the process of fertilization, to form a diploid zygote. The diploid zygote then goes through mitosis to form the diploid somatic cells of the organism. Remember that germ cells, found in the ovaries and testes, give rise to gametes. In other words, germ cells go through meiosis to produce gametes. Germ cells are diploid cells. When they go through meiosis, the end result is four unique haploid daughter cells! These haploid cells can be fertilized by other haploid cells to produce diploid cells again. The table below summarizes the characteristics of somatic cells, germ cells and gametes. Why do cells divide? Cells can divide into identical daughter cells, enabling growth and repair, or gametes can be formed for use in sexual reproduction. by turning certain genes on or off. Throughout our lives we continue to produce more genetically identical cells. These somatic cells are essential for growth and replacement of worn-out cells and tissues. Multicellular organisms continue to produce somatic cells throughout their lives using the process of mitosis, which will be discussed in the next module. Humans and other organisms that undergo sexual reproduction produce specialized reproductive cells called germ cells which are the precursors of gametes (called sperm and egg in many organisms including humans). When the gamete from one individual fuses with the gamete from another individual, a zygote is formed. In sexually reproducing organisms, gametes are produced through a process called meiosis which will also be discussed in a later module. In organisms that are diploid, gametes are produced using a different process than somatic cells. Diploid begins with the prefix di, which means two. So diploid means two sets of chromosomes. Mitosis produces identical diploid cells. If gametes were diploid, the zygote that results from the fusion of the two gametes would have 4 copies of each chromosome. That’s too many. Therefore, gametes must have only 1 copy of each chromosome: they are haploid. The word haploid begins with the letters ha, similar to the word half. This may help you remember that haploid cells have half the number of chromosomes of diploid cells, or one set of chromosomes. The table below summarizes the characteristics of somatic cells, germ cells and gametes. Why do cells divide? Cells undergo different phases, during which they grow, duplicate their genetic material, and then divide. Most cells in multicellular organisms are somatic cells. Somatic cells consist of all the nonreproductive cells in an organism; for example, tissue cells, nerve cells, and blood cells. Meiosis begins with germ cells. Be careful not to confuse “germ cells” with the common use of the word “germ,” which refers to any infectious microorganism. In humans, germ cells are found in the ovaries and testes. These germ cells go through the process of meiosis to produce gametes, which in animals are sperm and egg cells. simply by turning certain genes on or off. Throughout our lives, we continue to produce more genetically identical cells through the process of mitosis. These somatic cells are essential for growth and replacement of worn-out cells and tissues. Mitosis and meiosis are the processes by which cells divide and grow; their role in human growth is summarized in the diagram above. Chromosomes are thread-like structures located inside cells. In eukaryotic cells, the chromosomes are contained inside an organelle called a nucleus. In prokaryotic cells, they are located in a particular area of the cytoplasm. Envision the general makeup of a chromosome, as shown in the following diagram. The genes are represented as short segments of the ruler. Notice in the diagram above that the blobs of clay (histones) are located at equally spaced intervals along the ruler. The winding function of histones plays a very important role in cells. Think of a long piece of string. Knots can easily form in the string if it is not carefully wound up into a ball. This feat is achieved by two different winding processes.  The chromosomes in somatic cells and germ cells are present in pairs. One chromosome in each pair is descended from the organism's father. The other chromosome in the pair is descended from the organism's mother. Each member of a chromosome pair is called a homologue. Together, these two chromosomes make up a pair of homologous chromosomes. The words homologue and homologous both begin with the prefix "homo-," which means "the same or similar." So the two chromosomes in each pair contain the same set of instructions. The following diagram shows the relationship between homologues and homologous chromosomes. Somatic cells produced through mitosis are diploid. “Di-” means “two,” and diploid cells contain two copies of every chromosome. Humans have a total of 46 chromosomes in their diploid cells. One way to write this is "2n = 46." Down syndrome is caused by having three copies of chromosome 21, instead of the usual two copies. Notice that there are 22 pairs of chromosomes called autosomes and there is one pair of chromosomes called sex chromosomes. Males and females have different sex chromosomes. An image like this is called a karyotype and can be used to diagnose genetic disorders in humans. Gametes are haploid cells. They contain only one copy of each chromosome. In human haploid gametes, there are 23 chromosomes. One way to write this is "1n = 23." As you learned in the previous activity, two haploid cells can combine, through the process of fertilization, to form a diploid zygote. The diploid zygote then goes through mitosis to form the diploid somatic cells of the organism. Remember that germ cells, found in the ovaries and testes, give rise to gametes. In other words, germ cells go through meiosis to produce gametes. Germ cells are diploid cells. When they go through meiosis, the end result is four unique haploid daughter cells. These haploid cells can be fertilized by other haploid cells to produce diploid cells again. The table below summarizes the characteristics of somatic cells, germ cells, and gametes. Multicelled organisms are made of two main types of cells. In diploid cells (cells with two copies of each chromosome) each chromosome has a homologue. Homologous chromosomes have the same genes, but they can have different versions of those genes. In the next module, you will examine the details of mitosis. But before you move on, review these key terms and prepare for the module quiz. Review the following key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of cells and chromosomes by taking the quiz linked below. Every living organism goes through various stages of development. Remember from earlier that cells are living things. They, too, go through a set of programmed stages. Cells go through five major stages of development: G1, synthesis (S), G2, mitosis (M), and cytokinesis. The events that occur during stages G1, S, and G2 are nearly the same in all types of cells. It is called this because, like a human parent, it reproduces—it makes new cells that are copies of itself. At the end of the development process, two new cells are produced. These cells represent the next generation of cells in this lineage (just as your parents represent one generation and you represent the next generation). Do not be confused by the use of the word daughter—it does not mean that these are female cells. Regardless of whether they are male or female cells, the newly produced cells are called daughter cells. Notice here a very important difference between the two: The far end of human development is marked by the death of the individual. Notice that they look the same. Once again, we revisit the theme of cycles in nature that we discussed above. The cycle generates cells that resemble the cells we started with. Similarly, human beings have children, who then have children themselves. The word "reproduction" is used in many different scientific and nonscientific settings. Regardless of the setting, though, reproduction has the same basic meaning. Reproduction is defined as "the act of making a copy of the original." With this in mind, the word reproduction can be applied to many different situations. Some of these include parents having a baby, you photocopying a page in your textbook, and a museum staff member making print copies of a famous oil painting. In each case, a relatively close copy of the original has been made. Like metabolism, each of these steps must occur in a particular order.  It provides new cells for growth, the replacement of dead cells, and healing. In organisms, it ensures the inheritance of genetic information from one generation to the next. In this unit, you will learn about how cells carry out these critical processes. Your understanding of the information this unit will lay the foundation for understanding heredity and molecular genetics. In animals, gametes are haploid reproductive cells that are produced using the process of meiosis. The gametes from two individuals fuse in the processes of fertilization to produce a diploid zygote. The diploid zygote divides using the process of mitosis to become an adult organism. Meiosis is divided into two phases. In meiosis I, homologous pairs of chromosomes bind together and exchange pieces. By the end of meiosis I the homologous pairs of chromosomes have been sorted into separate cells. In meiosis II, the individual chromatids of a chromosome are sorted into separate cells. When you are ready, review the key terms in this module and take the module quiz. The following key terms were introduced in this module. Mitosis is the process by which eukaryotic cells divide into two identical daughter cells. Organisms use mitosis to grow and replace old or malfunctioning cells. When this regulation goes awry, cells can begin to divide uncontrollably, possibly resulting in cancerous tumors. Mitosis results in identical daughter cells. However, sexually-reproducing organisms need a way to produce gametes, which are unique haploid cells that combine to form new organisms. In the next module, you'll learn more about meiosis, which is the process used to produce gametes. Before you move into the next module, review these key terms and take the module quiz. Review the following key terms that were introduced in this module. Mitosis is the process by which eukaryotic cells divide into two identical daughter cells. Organisms use mitosis to grow and replace old or malfunctioning cells. When this regulation goes awry, cells can begin to divide uncontrollably, possibly resulting in cancerous tumors. Mitosis results in identical daughter cells. However, sexually-reproducing organisms need a way to produce gametes, which are unique haploid cells that combine to form new organisms. In the next module, you'll learn more about meiosis, which is the process used to produce gametes. Before you move into the next module, review these key terms and take the module quiz. Review the following key terms that were introduced in this module. Important features of metabolic pathways include: The location and connections between these degradative pathways is shown below: Many of these pathways, with minor modifications, are reversed for synthetic purposes. All metabolic pathways rely on enzymes (catalysts) to speed up chemical reactions and are carefully regulated. Cellular respiration involves the mitochondria and requires oxygen gas as an input. Fermentation does not require oxygen and occurs in the cytoplasm. In addition, the oxygen generated as a waste product by photosynthesis is a vital input to cellular respiration. Before proceeding to take the Metabolism quiz, reflect upon the learning objectives. Do you think you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of these objectives? If so, you will be ready for the assessment. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each objective. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions to your instructor when you are finished. All metabolic pathways rely on enzymes (catalysts) to speed up chemical reactions and are carefully regulated. Cellular respiration involves the mitochondria and requires oxygen gas as an input. Fermentation does not require oxygen and occurs in the cytoplasm. In addition, the oxygen generated as a waste product by photosynthesis is a vital input to cellular respiration. Before proceeding to take the Metabolism quiz, reflect upon the learning objectives. Do you think you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of these objectives? If so, you will be ready for the assessment. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each objective. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions to your instructor when you are finished. Implicit in that knowledge was the notion of cells as continuously changing and dynamic entities; cells: grow, rebuild, repair, reproduce, and react to the external environment. Metabolism is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical reactions, each of which is catalyzed by an enzyme (protein catalyst). The compounds that are internal to a metabolic pathway are referred to as intermediates in the pathway. Although specialized cells may possess different pathways, there are common characteristics that apply to most pathways. These will be covered in the discussion on "Common Characteristics of Metabolic Pathways." Metabolic pathways are either anabolic or catabolic. In the Pathways and Regulation module, you will learn the differences between catabolic and anabolic pathways. Each chemical transformation process releases heat as a byproduct. This heat can be useful for organisms to regulate their internal temperatures. Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are the most common metabolic pathways. The outputs of cellular respiration then become the raw materials for photosynthesis. Different cells use and require different biomolecules for their specialized functions. In plants, carbohydrates are usually stored as starch. In animals, they are stored as glycogen. When an athlete “carbo-loads” the evening before a race, starches from foods like pasta are digested to simple sugars in a catabolic reaction. They are then rebuilt as glycogen (in an anabolic reaction) in the muscles and liver. Biomolecules are broken down to raw materials, then rebuilt in a different form to meet the needs of the organism. Photosynthesis is an anabolic process you’ll learn more about in this unit. Protein synthesis is an amazing feat of anabolism. Characteristics of catabolic and anabolic reactions are summarized in the table below. Metabolism is the sum of all chemical reactions within a living organism. Exergonic reactions can be used to power endergonic reactions. Collectively, these enzymes, and their substrates and products, are referred to as a metabolic pathway. You will explore catabolism and anabolism further in the next sections. The smaller end products of a catabolic reaction may be released as waste or they may be fed into other reactions. Digestion of protein is also a catabolic reaction. “Anabolic” and “catabolic” sound similar but are opposites. To remember the difference, it may help to think about how “anabolic steroids” promote the buildup of muscle mass. Start by looking at the diagram below. Cellular respiration is shown on top, and protein synthesis is shown on the bottom. See if you can predict the labels that match the numbers. Examine the above diagram. Major processes in the Protein Synthesis/Cellular Respiration Cycle are labeled with a number. ATP consists of a single adenosine molecule (composed of an adenine bound to a ribose sugar) linked to three phosphate ions. ATP is a relatively unstable molecule. This job goes to other more stable compounds, like fats and sugars. The products of this reaction are inorganic phosphate (P) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP), which has only two phosphate groups. Taken together, ADP and P are more stable than ATP. This process is illustrated in the animation below. The opposing reactions are like using and charging a rechargeable battery. When proteins change shape, their microscopic movements can add up to macroscopic motion, such as occurs when entire muscles contract. You may remember that unlike charges (+ and -) attract each other, while like charges (+ and +; or - and -) repel each other. Both of these methods are described in more detail below.  Direct coupling In this case a large negative Go for the reaction is created by directly coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable one on the same enzyme. Direct coupling: Reaction 1 and 2 are hypothetical half-reactions that sum to give the complete reaction at the bottom of the image. In the actual reaction the enzyme glucose kinase transfers the phospate group directly from ATP to glucose; hydrolysis of the ATP does not occur. Indirect coupling. In the first case, the favorable preceeding reaction causes the concentration of the substrates for the following unfavorable reaction to be higher than equilibrium, making G negative. For the case of a favorable following reaction, the concentration of the products of the unfavorable reaction are kept to a level that is smaller than the equilibrium concentration, again making G negative. This type of coupling between reactions is referred to as indirect coupling because the coupling between favorable and unfavorable reactions occurs indirectly, via alteration of concentrations of reactants and products. Indirect coupling: In the absence of coupling (left) the conversion of [B] to [C] is uphill energetically, and therefore not favorable. It is captured by plants through the process of photosynthesis (an anabolic process) and is stored in the form of glucose (a sugar). Take some time to review this module before taking the quiz. The next module examines cellular respiration and photosynthesis more closely. The following key terms were introduced in this module: It is captured by plants through the process of photosynthesis (an anabolic process) and is stored in the form of glucose (a sugar). Take some time to review this module before taking the quiz. The next module examines cellular respiration and photosynthesis more closely. The following key terms were introduced in this module: Implicit in that knowledge was the notion of cells as continuously changing and dynamic entities: they grow, rebuild, repair, reproduce, and react to the external environment. Metabolism is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical conversions, each of which are catalyzed by an enzyme (protein catalyst). The compounds that are internal to the pathway are referred to as intermediates in the pathway. Although specialized cells may possess different pathways, there are common characteristics that apply to most pathways. Metabolic pathways are either anabolic or catabolic. You will learn about the differences between catabolic and anabolic pathways “ in a Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions ." The oxygen and glucose are then available to other living organisms. We usually think of respiration as the act of breathing preformed by many organisms to take in oxygen. There are two types of respiration: aerobic respiration requires oxygen and anaerobic respiration occurs without oxygen. A commonly known form of anaerobic respiration is fermentation, the process used to produce wines, distilled liquors, and other products.  The diagram below illustrates this process of photosynthesis, fermentation, and aerobic respiration. You will learn more about these two pathways in the section about “Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions.” In the absence of oxygen, yeasts still produce ATP by the partial oxidation of glucose, releasing smaller amounts of CO2. Humans also undergo anaerobic metabolism during vigorous exercise, but in humans, lactic acid is produced instead of ethanol. Other organisms that perform fermentation produce a variety of other end products. Fermentation is discussed as an alternative pathway in the module on Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration.  The first part of the process of respiration is called glycolysis. It consists basically of the breakdown of glucose into a smaller compound called pyruvate. Pyruvate can then go on to either cellular respiration or fermentation, depending on the availability of oxygen. Misregulation of metabolic pathways can cause disease. Mis-regulation of metabolic pathways can cause disease, such as in diabetes where the metabolism of glucose is incorrectly regulated. Implicit in that knowledge was the notion of cells as continuously changing and dynamic entities: they grow, rebuild, repair, reproduce, and react to the external environment. Mis-regulation of metabolic pathways can cause disease, such as in diabetes where the metabolism of glucose is incorrectly regulated. Metabolism is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical conversions, each of which are catalyzed by an enzyme (protein catalyst). The compounds that are internal to the pathway are referred to as intermediates in the pathway. Although specialized cells may possess different pathways, there are common characteristics that apply to most pathways. Metabolic pathways are either anabolic or catabolic. You will learn about the differences between catabolic and anabolic pathways “ in a Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions ." The oxygen and glucose are available to other living organisms. The figure below illustrates this process of photosynthesis and respiration. You will learn more of these two pathways in “ Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions.” In the absence of oxygen, yeast still produce ATP by the partial oxidation of glucose, releasing smaller amounts of CO2. Humans also undergo anaerobic metabolism during vigorous exercise, however lactic acid is produced instead of ethanol. Other organisms that perform fermentation produce a variety of other end products. Alternative Pathways such as fermentation are addressed in a separate module. The Glycolysis Pathway: Oxidation-reduction reactions, or Redox reactions are common in metabolic pathways. In contrast, synthetic (anabolilc) pathways, are generally reductive pathways.  In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. Oxidation of FAD. The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Try the following mini-tutor to test your skill at assessing whether a redox reaction has occurred. Oxidations involve the loss of electrons. Reductions involve the gain of electrons. Here are two mnemonics to help you remember where the electrons go during redox reactions:  LEO GER: "leo [the lion] goes grr". Lose electrons oxidation, gain electron reduction. OIL RIG: Oxidation involves loss, reduction involves gain. The above reaction is an incomplete description of a redox reaction because it does not indicate the fate of the electrons that were obtained from iron. Since free electrons generally cannot exist, all oxidation reactions must be coupled to a corresponding reduction. Since the above reaction only describes one-half of the reaction it is referred to as a half-reaction. The oxidation of iron could be coupled to the reduction of copper ions, which is described by the following half-reaction: The complete reaction, balanced such that there are no free electrons, is: The pair of compounds that exchange electrons are often referred to as a redox couple. You can think of “work” as any change that won’t happen on its own. It makes things change. After the fire dies, the heat and light have dissipated and are no longer available for living organisms. Imagine that you climb a mountain trail ending in a steep cliff. A fall from the top of the cliff would do a great deal of “work,” so watch your step! Imagine that you climb a mountain trail ending in a steep cliff. A fall from the top of the cliff would do a great deal of “work,” so watch your step! To us, it seems that the sun has burned forever and will always keep shining. It dissipates, spreading out in space, and loses its intensity. No organism can capture heat and use it to do work or to make food. Instead, heat seeps out of organisms and eventually into space, leaving the biosphere forever. The coupling between the proton gradient and the chemical synthesis of ATP, was originally proposed by Dr. Peter Michell in 1961 as the chemiosmotic hypothesis. His theory proved to be true, leading to a Nobel prize for his work in 1978. The mechanism of ATP synthase is such that the enzyme generates one ATP molecule every time 3 protons are transferred back to the matrix from the inter-membrane space. If the products are defined as the protons that have been transported to the matrix, the formula is: where Z is the change on the transported particle, F is Faraday's constant (96,494 Coulomb/mol) and is the voltage difference across the membrane: Its form is analogous to the formula give for the transport of glucose across the membrane in glycolysis. Typical proton concentration differences across the inner membrane are approximately 10 fold, with the outside being more acidic. In addition to the concentration difference, there is also an approximately 100 mV voltage difference across the membrane, with the inside being more negative. Therefore the transport of 3 protons will release 45.9 kJ/mol, which is more than sufficient to generate a single ATP.  The enzyme consists of two separable subunits. The Fo subunit is within the membrane and is responsible for the transfer of protons through the membrane. The F1 subunit extends into the mitochondrial matrix and is responsible for the synthesis of ATP. The F1 subunit is composed of three subunits and three subunits. The subunit extends from the Fo domain through the center of the - sphere. The subunit rotates 120 degrees every time three protons flows through the Fo domain. The - sphere is prevented from rotating along with the subunit by the b-subunit, which anchors the - sphere to the membrane. The conformation of the - subunits is affected by the relative position of the subunit. Since the gamma subunit rotates 120o, there are three possible conformations of the - subunits: The cycle of ATP synthesis is as follows:  ADP and inorganic phosphate bind to the subunits that have high affinity for these compounds. A three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing a 120o rotation of the -subunit. The rotation of the -subunit causes a conformational change in the - subunits. ATP is more stable in the new conformation of the - subunits, consequently the bound ADP and inorganic phosphate is spontaneously converted to ATP. Another three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing another 120o rotation of the subunit. This rotation causes an additional conformational change of the - subunits, generating the conformation that has low affinity for ATP and ADP, thus the newly synthesized ATP is released. A three additional protons flows through the Fo domain, causing another rotation of subunits. This restores the system to the starting conditions.  The electron transport chain consists of four multi-protein complexes that are contained within the inner mitochondrial membrane. This proton gradient is used to drive the synthesis of ATP. Complete rotation of the subunit requires the transfer of 9 protons across the membrane. Consequently, only three protons are required to synthesize one ATP.  Cellular respiration is a three-step process involving a complex series of chemical reactions. Cellular respiration is the primary source of ATP for most organisms because of the higher production rate fueled by aerobic respiration. Various compounds are used by the electron transport chain to carry electrons. These components include: The organization of the four complexes and electron carriers in the electron transport chain are illustrated in the following diagram: NADH is oxidized by the electron transport chain by the transfer of the two electrons from NADH to complex I. These electrons are then transferred to coenzyme Q, followed by transfer to complex III. The electrons are then carried by cytochrome C to complex IV, where the electrons are used to reduce oxygen to water. For every pair of electrons, four protons are transported by complex I, four by complex II and two by complex IV. The electrons from FADH2 are first processed by complex II. Complex II is actually succinate dehydrogenase from the TCA cycle. The electron acceptor for succinate, FAD, is tightly bound to the enzyme. Consequently, it is more correct to consider that complex II processes the electrons from succinate, first passing them to FAD and then via iron-sulfur centers to coenzyme Q. The two electrons then follow the same path as those from NADH2, from coenzyme Q to complex III, and then to complex IV via cytochrome C, finally to oxygen to produce water. Since electron transport through complex II does not result in the transport of protons only a total of 6 protons/2 electrons are transported across the inner membrane when succinate is the initial electron donor. In summary: Consequences of Interrupting Electron Transport It must be converted to a more usable source, such as ATP. This enzyme is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and it projects into the matrix. Metabolic pathways constitute a complex network of chemical reactions, with some pathways functioning like central “freeways” to which many other pathways connect. Bacteria, in particular, have an astonishing array of metabolic options. The variety of metabolic options in the bacterial domain helps scientists classify evolutionary relationships between these organisms. Many of the metabolic options do not require oxygen and are called anaerobic (“an-” means without and “aerobic” refers to oxygen). Although fermentation is the only ATP-producing pathway for some microbes, it is also commonly used by many organisms as a special-purpose pathway. This allows yeast to continue to produce ATP even in rotten, oxygen-poor fruit. Some human tissues also use fermentation under certain conditions. Sprinters and weightlifters have well-developed fast-twitch muscles. Fast-twitch fibers have fewer mitochondria and are not able to renew their supply of oxygen rapidly. Therefore, they have relatively poor endurance. However, fast-twitch fibers excel at producing strong contractions very quickly. They do this using the ATP created through a form of fermentation. This pathway does not break sugar all the way down to CO2, but stops at an intermediate (lactic acid). Oxygen is not used in fermentation, and although some CO2 may be produced, glucose is not fully broken down. In addition, the byproducts of fermentation can be toxic. Fermentation is a very common metabolic pathway in microorganisms such as bacteria and yeast, resulting in alcoholic beverages, fermented milk products, and bread. In fermentation of alcoholic beverages, yeast is added to sugary juices or malt syrups. The container is sealed to exclude oxygen. Under these conditions, the yeast switches to fermentation and generates ethanol, the intoxicating “active ingredient” of alcoholic beverages. Eventually, however, ethanol concentrations reach a point where the yeasts themselves are inhibited and fermentation grinds to a halt. In this way, wine and beer are naturally limited in their alcohol content. High-alcohol liquors can be produced only by distillation, a chemical process that concentrates the alcohol. However, cellular respiration is aerobic while fermentation is anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient than anaerobic respiration. Cellular respiration produces as much as 15 times more ATP than fermentation. The table below shows the ATP yield from one glucose molecule for both processes. Metabolic pathways constitute a complex network of chemical reactions, with some pathways functioning like central “freeways” to which many other pathways connect. Bacteria, in particular, have an astonishing array of metabolic options. The variety of metabolic options in the bacterial domain helps scientists classify evolutionary relationships between these organisms. Many of the metabolic options do not require oxygen and are called anaerobic (“an-” means without and “aerobic” refers to oxygen). Although fermentation is the only ATP-producing pathway for some microbes, it is also commonly used by many organisms as a special-purpose pathway. This allows yeast to continue to produce ATP even in rotten, oxygen-poor fruit. Some human tissues also use fermentation under certain conditions. Sprinters and weightlifters have well-developed fast-twitch muscles. Fast-twitch fibers have fewer mitochondria and are not able to renew their supply of oxygen rapidly. Therefore, they have relatively poor endurance. However, fast-twitch fibers excel at producing strong contractions very quickly. They do this using the ATP created through a form of fermentation. This pathway does not break sugar all the way down to CO2, but stops at an intermediate (lactic acid). Oxygen is not used in fermentation, and although some CO2 may be produced, glucose is not fully broken down. In addition, the byproducts of fermentation can be toxic. Fermentation is a very common metabolic pathway in microorganisms such as bacteria and yeast, resulting in alcoholic beverages, fermented milk products, and bread. In fermentation of alcoholic beverages, yeast is added to sugary juices or malt syrups. The container is sealed to exclude oxygen. Under these conditions, the yeast switches to fermentation and generates ethanol, the intoxicating “active ingredient” of alcoholic beverages. Eventually, however, ethanol concentrations reach a point where the yeasts themselves are inhibited and fermentation grinds to a halt. In this way, wine and beer are naturally limited in their alcohol content. High-alcohol liquors can be produced only by distillation, a chemical process that concentrates the alcohol. However, cellular respiration is aerobic while fermentation is anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient than anaerobic respiration. Cellular respiration produces as much as 15 times more ATP than fermentation. The table below shows the ATP yield from one glucose molecule for both processes. Glycolysis is the first pathway that occurs in the metabolism of carbohydrates. This pathway occurs in the cytosol of all cells, i.e. it is a highly conserved and ubiquitous pathway. Although many different disaccharides are broken down into monosaccharides and enter the glycolysis, we will focus on how glucose is metabolized in this section. The entry points of other sugars will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway. You may also explore this activity in a separate larger window  Under anaerobic (oxygen limited) conditions, which occurs in the muscle tissue during vigorous activity, the NADH produced in glycolysis cannot be reoxidized to NAD+ by electron transport because there is insufficient oxygen to accept electrons. The levels of NAD+ can be restored by using pyruvate as the electron acceptor. In mammals, lactate is the product of this reaction. In yeast, it is alcohol and the process of anaerobic glycolysis is referred to as fermentation. The reduction of pyruvate will oxidize NADH to NAD+, allowing glycolysis to resume. The lactate that is produced by active muscle tissue is transported to the liver. When oxygen becomes available, the lactate is reoxidized to pyruvate and it can then be used for the synthesis of glucose. An overall summary of glycolysis is depicted below:  Key features of Glycolysis: Pyruvate is further oxidized in the TCA cycle. Four ATP (2/pyruvate) are produced later in the pathway. Consequently, the net yield is two ATP. A single oxidation step produces one molecule of NADH/pyruvate. The key regulatory step is the addition of the second phosphate to fructose, by the enzyme phosphofructose kinase If the glucose concentration in both compartments are the same, then =0 and there is no net movement of glucose across the membrane.  The levels of glucose in the blood vary considerably at times. We will discuss how glucose levels are regulated in the section on integrated metabolism. The following learn-by-doing activity allows you to investigate the chemical and energetic changes that occur in glycolysis. Once you open up the page, explore it using the embedded questions to prepare you for the self-assessment at the end of this module. This catabolic reaction is expressed as follows: Note that cellular respiration is an aerobic process which means that oxygen (O2) is required. Use of these carriers allows for the controlled transfer of the electrons and H+ and the most efficient production of ATP. NAD+ and FADH+ accept electrons and H+ during the early stages of the cellular respiration process. When they have accepted the electrons and H+, they become: Catabolic pathways reverse this process. The centrally important catabolic pathway that is complementary to photosynthesis is cellular respiration. If you compare the summary reactions of photosynthesis and cellular respiration, you will see that cellular respiration is photosynthesis “running in reverse”: Cellular respiration is a key pathway in the metabolism of all aerobic organisms. On the macro scale, respiration refers to breathing: taking in oxygen and removing CO2. Glycolysis of glucose produces 2 pyruvates, so the citric acid cycle happens twice. Therefore, per glucose, the citric acid cycle produces 2 ATP, 3 NADH, and 2 FADH2. So far, we have produced a total of 4 ATP (that's not very much). That's a lot more! Electron Transport Chain These electrons are passed to proteins on the inner membrane of the mitochondria. This concentration gradient is used to build ATP. The final electron acceptor in the electron transport chain is oxygen. Without the electron transport chain, NADH does not get broken down to NAD+ and glycolysis would not be able to continue. Fermentation uses the same pathway as glycolysis, but adds an additional step to recycle NADH. This allows the process of fermentation to continue. This is the main source of ATP for cellular respiration. A helpful analogy for understanding how the electron transport chain works is a hydroelectric dam. The motion of the wheel is used to generate electricity. In the electron transport chain, the protons flow down their concentration gradient through a protein called “ATP synthase”. The process can be regulated at different steps, allowing cells more control over the process. Cellular respiration is a complex, multistep process. Dozens of different enzymes and intermediates are involved. Initial steps are accomplished in the cytoplasm, and additional steps occur in the mitochondria. Fats and proteins can also be used in cellular respiration, but they must be modified before they can feed into the process. Three important things happen during cellular respiration: In eukaryotes, the breakdown of sugar begins in the cytoplasm (cytosol), while the consumption of oxygen and the generation of CO2 and ATP synthesis happen inside specialized membrane-bound organelles called mitochondria. Respiration is a complex catabolic pathway and does not occur in one step. The common pathway for aerobic cellular respiration consist of three main steps: Glycolysis, Citric Acid Cycle (also known as Kreb's Cycle), and the Electron Transport Chain. We will explore each step. Glycolysis “Glyco” refers to sugar and “lysis” means to breakdown or degrade. So, this step is essentially the breaking of a sugar molecule in half. Glucose is the most common sugar used in this process. This metabolic pathway breaks down glucose with or without oxygen. It is the first stage of cellular respiration and fermentation (anaerobic respiration). NADH (and FADH2) are electron carriers. You will see why these are important in a moment. Citric Acid (or Kreb’s) Cycle The next step in cellular respiration is the citric acid cycle (or “Krebs” cycle) which happens in the inner space of the mitochondria. Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are interdependent metabolic pathways. The products of photosynthesis (oxygen and glucose) are the precursors that feed into cellular respiration. This interdependence is an excellent illustration of how anabolic and catabolic reactions are also interdependent. In the next module, we’ll look at how metabolic pathways are regulated. Review this module and the following key terms introduced. When you are ready, check your understanding of photosynthesis and cellular respiration by taking the quiz linked below Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are interdependent metabolic pathways. The products of photosynthesis (oxygen and glucose) are the precursors that feed into cellular respiration. This interdependence is an excellent illustration of how anabolic and catabolic reactions are also interdependent. In the next module, we’ll look at how metabolic pathways are regulated. Review this module and the following key terms introduced. When you are ready, check your understanding of photosynthesis and cellular respiration by taking the quiz linked below Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. As you may recall, photosynthesis occurs in some bacteria; in eukaryotes it occurs in cells that contain chloroplasts. Such cells are found in algae and in the leaves and stems of plants. Cellular respiration is very widespread. It is completed in mitochondria, bacteria-like organelles that are found in protists, fungi, plants, and animals. Although the details of the two pathways are different, the overall reaction of cellular respiration is photosynthesis running in reverse. In the last two sections, the topics of photosynthesis and cellular respiration have been introduced and discussed as independent processes. The focus of this module is on how the two processes are part of one larger cycle. There is a yin-yang relationship between the two processes — the product of one process is the starting material for the other. In the image below, you see a summary of photosynthesis. But photosynthesis does not occur in a vacuum. In fact, it is inevitably PAIRED WITH cellular respiration in most producers. They take most of the glucose they have produced and break it right down again in their own cells. A full representation joins photosynthesis to cellular respiration in a cycle. The products of one reaction are the starting materials for the other. Because each process starts where the other ends, they form a cycle. The photosynthesis / cellular respiration cycle isn’t restricted to the cells of an individual plant. A growing photosynthetic producer carries out more photosynthesis than cellular respiration. This interdependence is depicted in the diagram below. The cycling that occurs between photosynthesis and cellular respiration is vital to the health of planet Earth. Additionally, photosynthetic organisms are the base of almost every food chain on the planet, so without these organisms, mass starvation would ensue. Luckily, this planet is full of photosynthetic organisms. All of the breathable oxygen on Earth comes from photosynthesis. Just over half of the oxygen is produced by phytoplankton — drifting photosynthetic algae and bacteria — in the oceans. The rest comes from plants (trees, grass, etc.) on the land. An understanding of this balance is important in the modern world, with global warming in the headlines. Meanwhile, deforestation removes photosynthetic organisms (trees) from the surface of the planet. Taken together, these human activities have changed Earth’s atmosphere. Such changes are very likely changing Earth’s climate, and pollution and deforestation also have other detrimental effects on environmental health. We will return to explore these topics further in the Ecology unit. You will need to use your understanding of photosynthesis and respiration to fully grasp these issues.  Recently, Iain Stewart, a geoscience professor at Plymouth University, remained in an airtight chamber at the Eden Project in Cornwall for 48 hours. The 12 square meter (130 square foot) see-through plastic chamber contained between 150 and 200 plants. The aim was to demonstrate the importance of plants to human survival as the "lungs of the planet." To view a picture and learn more about Mr. Stewart's experiment, click here. Iain Stewart Consider the photosynthesis / cellular respiration cycle. For each of the following statements, determine whether it can be classified as being involved in photosynthesis, cellular respiration, or both. As you may recall, photosynthesis occurs in some bacteria; in eukaryotes it occurs in cells that contain chloroplasts. Such cells are found in algae and in the leaves and stems of plants. Cellular respiration is very widespread. It is completed in mitochondria, bacteria-like organelles that are found in protists, fungi, plants, and animals. Although the details of the two pathways are different, the overall reaction of cellular respiration is photosynthesis running in reverse. In the last two sections, the topics of photosynthesis and cellular respiration have been introduced and discussed as independent processes. The focus of this module is on how the two processes are part of one larger cycle. There is a yin-yang relationship between the two processes — the product of one process is the starting material for the other. In the image below, you see a summary of photosynthesis. But photosynthesis does not occur in a vacuum. In fact, it is inevitably PAIRED WITH cellular respiration in most producers. They take most of the glucose they have produced and break it right down again in their own cells. A full representation joins photosynthesis to cellular respiration in a cycle. The products of one reaction are the starting materials for the other. Because each process starts where the other ends, they form a cycle. The photosynthesis / cellular respiration cycle isn’t restricted to the cells of an individual plant. A growing photosynthetic producer carries out more photosynthesis than cellular respiration. This interdependence is depicted in the diagram below. In plants and algae, these pigments are contained within specialized subcellular organelles called chloroplasts. You will examine the function of pigments in more detail later. Land plants face a different set of challenges. Plant leaves are the main location of photosynthesis. They are often large, flat structures that are adapted for maximum light absorption. In many plants, leaves also are held high above the ground by tall stems. Growing tall is an adaptation that helps a plant get high-intensity sunlight, because short plants are more likely to be shaded by taller ones. Land plants also face the risk of drying out. This is quite a challenge for a tall plant. Plants have no moving parts that could power a pump, so their circulatory systems must work on different principles. “Wood” is mainly the structural material that remains after these cells have died. Ultimately, an adaptation for moving water helps woody plants grow even taller than their less sturdy cousins, further enhancing their access to light. The adaptations of plants have long been a subject of biological study. One of the first questions asked by early scientists was, “How do plants get their resources for growth?” Jean-Baptist van Helmont designed an experiment to test this in the 1600’s. He planted a tree in a pot and watered it. He measured the weight of the soil and the tree both before and after the experiment. If the tree “ate” soil, then as it grew, the soil’s mass should decline by a similar amount. You will examine the function of pigments in more detail later. Land plants face a different set of challenges. Plant leaves are the main location of photosynthesis. They are often large, flat structures that are adapted for maximum light absorption. In many plants, leaves also are held high above the ground by tall stems. Growing tall is an adaptation that helps a plant get high-intensity sunlight, because short plants are more likely to be shaded by taller ones. Land plants also face the risk of drying out. This is quite a challenge for a tall plant. Plants have no moving parts that could power a pump, so their circulatory systems must work on different principles. “Wood” is mainly the structural material that remains after these cells have died. Ultimately, an adaptation for moving water helps woody plants grow even taller than their less sturdy cousins, further enhancing their access to light. The adaptations of plants have long been a subject of biological study. One of the first questions asked by early scientists was, “How do plants get their resources for growth?” Jean-Baptist van Helmont designed an experiment to test this in the 1600’s. He planted a tree in a pot and watered it. He measured the weight of the soil and the tree both before and after the experiment. If the tree “ate” soil, then as it grew, the soil’s mass should decline by a similar amount. Examine the diagram of the Calvin Cycle below. (Note: The integer in front of the molecule names indicates the number of that molecule used or produced.) We know that plants require light. Visible light is just a small part of a much broader spectrum including many forms of electromagnetic radiation. In many ways, light behaves as a wave. Different colors of light have different wavelengths. Are all wavelengths of light equally useful for photosynthesis? In 1883, a scientist named George Engelmann designed an experiment to answer this question. He shined a light through a prism to separate the different wavelengths so that they landed on different zones along the length of filaments of Spirogyra, a type of green algae. Examine the following image depicting Engelmann’s results. Why does a pigment look red, green, purple, or blue? A given pigment absorbs only a limited set of light wavelengths. Red light, by contrast, is NOT absorbed: it is either reflected or transmitted through a solution containing the pigment. If excited electrons are not removed from a pigment molecule, they will eventually “fall” back to their starting point. If you expose these fluorescent pigments to light and then place them in a dark place, they will glow. In the experiment mentioned above, George Engelmann used bacteria to measure the amount of photosynthesis achieved by algae. The bacteria he used in his study require oxygen to live. In each zone along the length of the filament, there were different wavelengths of light. So, some algal cells were photosynthesizing mainly with red light, others with green light, etc. The amount of photosynthesis supported by each wavelength was measured by how many bacteria were able to live in each zone. O2 is a product of photosynthesis. This product is essential for many living organisms, including humans and any other organisms that go through cellular respiration. When photosynthesis became widespread in the early Earth’s oceans, it generated excess oxygen gas that changed the Earth’s atmosphere. This increase in atmospheric oxygen concentration eventually changed the face of our planet as organisms that couldn’t adapt died off and new organisms evolved. We know that plants require light. Visible light is just a small part of a much broader spectrum including many forms of electromagnetic radiation. In many ways, light behaves as a wave. Different colors of light have different wavelengths. Are all wavelengths of light equally useful for photosynthesis? In 1883, a scientist named George Engelmann designed an experiment to answer this question. He shined a light through a prism to separate the different wavelengths so that they landed on different zones along the length of filaments of Spirogyra, a type of green algae. Examine the following image depicting Engelmann’s results. Why does a pigment look red, green, purple, or blue? A given pigment absorbs only a limited set of light wavelengths. Red light, by contrast, is NOT absorbed: it is either reflected or transmitted through a solution containing the pigment. If excited electrons are not removed from a pigment molecule, they will eventually “fall” back to their starting point. If you expose these fluorescent pigments to light and then place them in a dark place, they will glow. In the experiment mentioned above, George Engelmann used bacteria to measure the amount of photosynthesis achieved by algae. The bacteria he used in his study require oxygen to live. In each zone along the length of the filament, there were different wavelengths of light. So, some algal cells were photosynthesizing mainly with red light, others with green light, etc. The amount of photosynthesis supported by each wavelength was measured by how many bacteria were able to live in each zone. O2 is a product of photosynthesis. This product is essential for many living organisms, including humans and any other organisms that go through cellular respiration. When photosynthesis became widespread in the early Earth’s oceans, it generated excess oxygen gas that changed the Earth’s atmosphere. This increase in atmospheric oxygen concentration eventually changed the face of our planet as organisms that couldn’t adapt died off and new organisms evolved. The chart below shows the results. Photosynthesis requires particular enzymes and cellular structures. Since our cells (and other animal cells) don't have these structures, we cannot do photosynthesis. Do you remember what they are called? You may want to review that module before continuing. We have seen that photosynthesis uses pigments (such as chlorophyll) in the chloroplasts to absorb light. Plant leaves are the main location of photosynthesis. They are often large, flat surfaces that are adapted for maximum light absorption. In land plants, the leaves are also often found on the ends of tall stems. Growing as tall as possible is an adaptation that helps the plant get to the sunlight; short plants are shaded by taller ones. Photosynthesis needs more than just light and pigments to work. Jean-Baptist van Helmont designed an experiment to test this in the 1600’s. He planted a tree in a pot and watered it. He measured the weight of the soil and the tree both before and after the experiment. He found that the weight of the soil was approximately the same before and after, but the weight of the tree increased greatly.  LEARNBYDOING: inline_carbon_source_for_photosynthesis_lbd The overall equation for photosynthesis is:  DIDIGETTHIS:inline_photosynthesis_overview_digt  CHECKPOINT: quiz_photosynthesis_assessment_q These organisms can then break down the sugars to build ATP using the process of cellular respiration. Are all wavelengths of light equally useful for photosynthesis? In 1883, a scientist named George Englemann designed an experiment to answer this question. He shined a light through a prism to separate the different wavelengths of light. These different wavelengths shone on different areas of an algae (called Spirogyra). From this experiment, Englemann ws able to determine which wavelengths of light were most utilized by algae in photosynthesis.  LEARNBYDOING: inline_wavelengths_of_light_for_photosynthesis_LBD Note: copyrighted image –place holder Retrieved from http://www.doctortee.com/dsu/tiftickjian/bio100/photosynthesis.html  DIDIGETTHIS: inline_wavelengths_DIGT  LEARNBYDOING: inline_products_of_photosynthesis_lbd Oxygen (O2) is a product of photosynthesis. This product is essential for other living organisms (such as humans and any organism that uses cellular respiration). When the first photosynthetic cells evolved on the primitive earth, they caused a drastic increase in oxygen concentration within the atmosphere. This increase in oxygen concentration changed the face of our planet as organisms that couldn’t adapt died off and new organisms evolved. The more you learn about living organisms, the more complicated they seem. All organisms exist because of a series of complex chemical reactions that are tightly regulated to maintain homoeostasis. Review the key terms from this module and when you are ready, take the module quiz. The following key terms were discussed in this module: However, you must be careful when dealing with BMI. A BMI score alone is not enough for a diagnosis. Then use the BMI chart (Figure 8.1) below to place yourself within the category of “normal,” “overweight,” or “obese.” _m3_bmi_obese_LBD What does your score mean? If you are underweight, do not pat yourself on the back. You should see a doctor and focus on the important end goal: your long-term health. For additional information about how to respond to an overweight or obese rating, visit the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute’s webpage on Assessing Your Weight and Health Risk. At the heart of metabolism are enzymes. These proteins embrace substrates, quickly generating products. One or more substrates bind to an enzyme’s active site. Without enzymes, metabolism would grind to a halt. Furthermore, the structural characteristics of enzymes allow the regulation of their function, thus allowing the regulation of the metabolic pathways they participate in. You may want to review the functions of enzyme proteins. Metabolic pathways are regulated in order to maintain maximum efficiency or in response to environmental changes. There are two major methods of pathway regulation. The first method involves changing the amount of the enzymes in the pathway. Since the reactions are catalyzed by the enzymes, if the enzyme is not present, the pathway is effectively shut off. You will explore how enzyme levels are regulated in the section on transcription. Regulation of pathways by altering the amount of enzymes in the pathway is usually too slow to meet the second-by-second regulation needs of the organism. Consequently, many pathways are regulated by increasing or decreasing the activity of an enzyme due to the binding of a small regulatory compound. Typically, only a few steps in the pathway are regulated, and the regulated steps typically occur near the beginning of the pathway to prevent the accumulation of intermediates, which are seldom of use to the cell. Think of an assembly line: the speed of production will change depending on how much of the starting material is available, how quickly each of the workers completes the task, and how much of the final product is needed. You may remember that cellular respiration is an essential catabolic pathway. Glucose can come from ingested carbohydrates, or from degradation of glycogen, a polysaccharide. When there is an excess of carbohydrates, they are stored as glycogen in an anabolic pathway. Six general mechanisms can regulate the rate of each step in a pathway. The mechanisms differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of them is discussed below, with the more rapid forms of regulation at the top of the list.  Substrate availability. If the substrate concentration increases, the rate of a reaction will increase. Put simply, substrates must collide with enzymes to initiate binding. Such collisions will occur more often if the substrate is highly concentrated. Note that too much of the substrate can saturate the enzyme, so above a certain amount of substrate, the reaction speed will not increase anymore. Competitive inhibition. An inhibitor “competes” with the substrate for the active site. If the inhibitor binds first, the substrate is blocked from entering and the enzyme is inhibited (cannot complete any reactions). Competitive inhibitors are often used as drugs to block an undesirable metabolic pathway. Products of a reaction are often competitive inhibitors, because they bind to the active site. Noncompetitive control. This mechanism is similar to competitive control, except in this case substances bind to a site away from the active site. Binding can either enhance or inhibit the enzyme’s function by changing the shape of the active site. Feedback inhibition. Both competitive and noncompetitive controls are often set up so that a product inhibits its own production by inhibiting enzymes at an early step in the synthesis process. This regulates the pathway: the product “turns off” its own production by inhibiting an enzyme on its own “assembly line.” This prevents the overproduction of a substance and also prevents the waste of resources on unnecessary intermediate products. Feedback inhibition is observed when a product inhibits an earlier step in the pathway. Product inhibition occurs when the product inhibits the enzyme that was directly involved in making that product. Modification of the enzyme. Chemical modification of enzymes (such as adding a phosphate group) can cause a change in the shape of the active site of the enzyme. The change may either increase or decrease enzyme activity. This is similar to noncompetitive control, except in this case the enzyme is chemically modified and control does not involve the binding of a large molecule to the enzyme. Changing enzyme concentrations. Enzyme levels can be increased by 1) conversion of inactive forms of the enzyme to active forms, or 2) regulating the synthesis of the enzyme. This permits a very quick response to bleeding: all the necessary factors are present and require only an activating signal. Elsewhere they are inactive — and thus do not digest the organ that secretes them. It takes longer to adjust enzyme levels by regulating the activity of genes that produce them. Such changes are most often seen in response to longer-term changes in the environment. Many animal genes are produced only during certain stages of development. Consider the following pathway, where compound A is metabolized to compound C, and answer the following questions. In summary, metabolic pathways are dynamic processes, continuously changing in response to environmental changes and cellular (or organismal) needs, while avoiding waste of resources. How much substrate or enzyme is available will determine the rate of reactions. Moreover, extreme “fine-tuning” of metabolism is possible through changes in enzyme activity due to the binding of inhibitors. In summary, metabolic pathways are dynamic processes, continuously changing in response to environmental changes and cellular (or organismal) needs, while avoiding waste of resources. How much substrate or enzyme is available will determine the rate of reactions. Moreover, extreme “fine-tuning” of metabolism is possible through changes in enzyme activity due to the binding of inhibitors. Underscoring the importance of metabolic regulation, in the next module you will learn about medical conditions caused by structural changes in enzymes that in turn affects the metabolic pathways they are involved. Metabolic pathways can be either anabolic or catabolic. Metabolic pathways consist of an ordered set of chemical reactions that are catalyzed by enzymes. At the heart of metabolism are enzymes. These proteins embrace substrates, quickly generating products. One or more substrates bind to an enzyme’s active site. Without enzymes, metabolism would grind to a halt. Furthermore, the structural characteristics of enzymes allow the regulation of their function, thus allowing the regulation of the metabolic pathways they participate in. Regardless of their purpose, all metabolic pathways share four important features:  Many pathways are universal among living organisms. Those who study metabolism, by contrast, see a huge degree of overlap among the cells of all living things. Many of the fundamental enzymes that keep our cells working are found in only slightly different forms in creatures as varied as zebrafish, fruit flies, yeast, and nematode worms. This is partly why studies on model organisms can teach us so much about our own biology. Many pathways are universal among living organisms. Those who study metabolism, by contrast, see a huge degree of overlap among the cells of all living things. Many of the fundamental enzymes that keep our cells working are found in only slightly different forms in creatures as varied as zebrafish, fruit flies, yeast, and nematode worms. This is partly why studies on model organisms can teach us so much about our own biology. Metabolic pathways (such as cellular respiration) are nearly universal. These organisms all use similar pathways.  Each pathway contains multiple intermediate products, and there are small molecular differences between the intermediates. Pathways proceed in “baby steps.” A chemical change that can be written and balanced as a single reaction may, in a real pathway, require dozens of reaction steps! Enzyme 2 then uses B as its substrate to produce C. Enzyme 3 then uses C as its substrate to produce D. Each step within the pathway, or the conversion from one intermediate to the next, is catalyzed by an enzyme. Thousands of enzymes catalyze reactions in human cells. Each enzyme conducts a single chemical reaction. The coordination of many enzymes working together can produce a variety of outcomes. The direction of the arrows indicate that this pathway is an anabolic, or synthetic, pathway where complex biomolecules D and F are synthesized using the simpler molecule A as starting material. The coordinated effort of many enzymes can produce a variety of final products. In a complex web of cause and effect, pathways influence themselves and each other. A small number of steps utilize different enzymes in the forward versus the reverse direction. These enzymes are regulated in a coordinated fashion such that a pathway operates in only direction at time. A small number of steps utilize different enzymes in the forward versus the reverse direction. These enzymes are regulated in a coordinated fashion such that a pathway operates in only direction at time. To this point, you have learned much about how pathways work. They proceed as a series of steps catalyzed by enzymes. They are regulated by factors that modify enzymes or alter the expression of genes. In living organisms, metabolic processes are tightly regulated under normal conditions. This ability or tendency is called homeostasis and depends on a complex set of stabilizing responses. Cells live in dynamic environments. Factors like pH, ion concentrations, and levels of various substrates and products are held within narrow bounds. This unique environment allows a diverse set of reactions to take place. Many of them could easily disturb internal chemistry and throw things out of whack. So could changes in the external environment. These concepts are not just academic, textbook issues. To the contrary! Many of today’s most challenging health problems center on the regulation of metabolism. The loss of proper regulation can result in a number of diseases or disorders. For instance, the potent poisons cyanide and arsenic are inhibitors of cellular respiration. Lack of regulation, or dysregulation, of metabolic pathways can lead to serious diseases. Examples include phenylketonuria (PKU), Tay-Sachs disease, galactosemia, and maple syrup urine disease. As a result, metabolism is disrupted and health problems occur. On the other hand, drugs often target metabolic pathways to correct diseases. For instance, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are drugs that are commonly used to control high blood pressure. These drugs inhibit ACE; the result is reduced production of angiotensin, a molecule that increases blood pressure. Although it may seem perfectly normal, this is an amazing feat of metabolic regulation. As you eat, foods are broken down and metabolized. Obesity can make many physical activities difficult or impossible. It is associated with many increased health risks; type II diabetes (see below), hypertension, and heart disease are three serious conditions that are clearly more common among obese people than their normal-weight peers. Obese people also suffer socially and professionally because of weight-related bias and discrimination. Why don’t the normal regulatory mechanisms work to limit weight in people who become obese? This is a question that has fueled considerable research and debate. Findings suggest that there are many contributing factors. Yet the target cells in their brains do not respond to leptin in the normal way; they do not perceive satisfaction or fullness. Obesity may result from a mismatch between our evolutionary adaptations and the realities of the modern world. We expend less calories each day on physical tasks than did previous generations of humans. More than 100 years ago, the average person may have expended 30 percent to 50 percent more calories each day than a typical modern American. In addition, today we have continuous access to an unprecedented array of calorie-rich foods. In times past, when food was scarce and could not be preserved easily, it was adaptive to feast on rich foods when they were available. Those who did so could build up fat and glycogen reserves, and thus were more likely to survive famines. Today, in a changed environment, the same behaviors predispose us to obesity. Our society’s main effort to overcome obesity has come in the form of dieting. Diet fads constantly come and go — Atkins, South Beach, Acai Berry, the Hollywood diet, and pills, drinks, or even machines that purportedly melt away fat. In fact, the total sales of weight loss services and products were estimated at over $55 billion in 2009. Unfortunately, all of this effort and expense does not appear to do much good. Surveys, clinical trials, and literature reviews have repeatedly turned up a depressing pattern: about 80 percent of dieters regain lost weight within one to five years — and very often shoot past their prediet weight with each cycle. If crash dieting is a bad idea, and we are “hardwired” to overeat, is there any hope for solving the obesity problem? Yes, there are many efforts in this direction. A variety of information on the scientific and social aspects of obesity can be found at http://www.cdc.gov/obesity. Information on diabetes can be found at http://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/. More information and many links can be found through federal websites including the obesity pages of the Centers for Disease Control and the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute. Note that when “calories” are being discussed in reference to food consumption, the word "calorie" actually refers to a kilocalorie. For your reference, a typical adult male requires about 2,500 calories per day; a female of average size might require 2,000 calories daily. Use the calculator below to answer the following questions. In the entry boxes, enter calorie surpluses or deficits. A calorie deficit results when more calories are expended through maintenance and activity than are obtained from food. Yet some humans do this without conscious effort. How does this remarkable balancing act work? First, consider what happens over the course of a typical day. After a meal, extra calories are initially stored in the liver and muscles as glycogen (a complex carbohydrate). Glycogen is broken down and used to supply glucose for intense exercise, and to provide glucose while we sleep. Thus, over short time scales, glycogen storage is an efficient way to provide glucose when it’s needed between meals. Your levels of hunger and overall metabolic rate change in response to your nutritional status. When your stomach is empty, a hormone called ghrelin is secreted. This acts on receptors in the brain to stimulate feelings of hunger. When the stomach is full, ghrelin secretion stops and so do your cravings for food. If a person takes in less calories than required for maintenance and activity, glycogen reserves are broken down first. It also has a role as an endocrine (hormone-secreting) organ. Taken together, these and other mechanisms tend to automatically adjust our hunger and activity to maintain our weight.  The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Having two different alleles for a trait present. Both alleles present are identical. Each pair of alleles segregates separately of any other pair of alleles when gametes are formed. Cross between two organisms, each of which is heterozygous for the trait. Parental generation. Physical or physiological characteristic present; also defined as the manifestation of the genes in an organism. Table method used to assess probabilities of outcomes in genetics. States that some traits are dominant and can mask recessive traits. Describes a trait that is masked by the dominant trait and is only expressed in the homozygous condition. Form of a characteristic represented Describes organisms that when bred only have offspring with the same phenotype as the parents; the organism is homozygous at the genotypes of interest. A single trait resulting from the interaction of multiple genes. A condition where an abnormal number of chromosomes and genetic material migrates and attaches where it does not belong. Describes a trait associated to alleles located on autosomes (non sex chromosomes). Diagrammatic representation of an organism's genome. Heritable features, such as color and shape. Mapping or charting of a family history, showing the occurrence of a trait or characteristic. The two alleles for each trait separate when gametes form. Describes a trait associated to alleles located on sex chromosomes, most commonly it is X-linked. Cross between two organisms that are each heterozygous for two distinct genes. Describes a trait that is expressed (manifested as a phenotype) even when only one copy of the allele encoding the trait is present in the genotype. First filial offspring of the parents; the first generation of offspring. Second filial generation; offspring of the F1 generation. Alleles present in an organism. However, long before the molecular basis of inheritance was known, humans observed traits and often manipulated them when breeding plants or animals with desirable characteristics. In this unit you learned, through some of the groundbreaking experiments and observations of scientists such as Mendel and Morgan, the most common inheritance patterns. From simple dominance to polygenic inheritance, there are many ways the discrete units of inheritance Mendel called “genes” (without knowing precisely what they were), can combine and influence each other. However, not everything is determined by genes. Further studies have shown that the environment plays an important role in how those genes are or are not expressed. In the next unit, you will learn about how genetic information is inherited, expressed, and regulated at the molecular level. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. However, long before the molecular basis of inheritance was known, humans observed traits and often manipulated them when breeding plants or animals with desirable characteristics. In this unit you learned, through some of the groundbreaking experiments and observations of scientists such as Mendel and Morgan, the most common inheritance patterns. From simple dominance to polygenic inheritance, there are many ways the discrete units of inheritance Mendel called “genes” (without knowing precisely what they were), can combine and influence each other. However, not everything is determined by genes. Further studies have shown that the environment plays an important role in how those genes are or are not expressed. In the next unit, you will learn about how genetic information is inherited, expressed, and regulated at the molecular level. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. After his first experiment with crossing involving one trait, Mendel conducted experiments looking at the inheritance of two traits. The resulting F1 generation plants all produced yellow, round seeds. The story became much more complicated when Mendel crossed the F1 generation plants with each other. This is called a dihybrid cross, as it is a cross between two individuals, both of whom are heterozygous for two traits. In the F2 generation, Mendel observed the original phenotypes (yellow/round, green/wrinkled) and two additional phenotypes: green/round and yellow/wrinkled. The four alleles had combined with each other, independently of each other. This outcome demonstrates the law of independent assortment. Mendel did not know of genes or alleles, he talked only of “units” specifying traits. Let’s look in detail at what happens with the genotypes of a dihybrid cross. As you remember from the Meiosis module, during meiosis I, after crossing-over, the chromosome pairs separate randomly. This means that Y and y will separate, as will R and r. But which goes to which gamete is random. So the Y allele in a chromosome can be associated with a chromosome containing the R allele or the r allele, and the R allele can be paired with a chromosome containing the Y allele or the y allele. Therefore, there are four possible gametes in a dihybrid cross. Fill in the following Punnett square for a dihybrid cross. There are exceptions to the law of independent assortment. We know now that peas have seven chromosomes, and Mendel happened to study traits coded by genes on different chromosomes, or on distant positions of the same chromosome, which assort independently due to frequent crossing-over. Genes that are very close together on a chromosome do not assort independently, and are said to be linked. The closer they are, the more probable that the gametes will receive parental combinations of alleles of those genes. All the genes in a chromosome are called a linkage group. Peas have seven linkage groups. You may have noticed that red hair and fair skin are often inherited together. This is because the genes for these traits are very close to each other on the same chromosome, and they rarely recombine. Mendel published his results in 1866, but few read his work, and no one understood it entirely. When he became abbot of the monastery in 1871, he retired from science, and he died in 1884, unaware that his pioneering experiments would form the foundation for the study of modern genetics. When you studied meiosis, you learned about how gametes were formed. But how are alleles dispersed into gametes through the process of meiosis? This activity will help you answer that question as you review the essential components of meiosis needed to understand inheritance. You may wish to review the Meiosis module prior to continuing with this unit. Homologous chromosomes are two chromosomes with the same genes, but which often have different alleles. Each of the homologous chromosomes is now made of two chromatids attached at a central point (called a centromere). Why do children look like their parents? How do rose growers get so many different colors of roses—pink, red, white, yellow, purple, peach, striped, and many more? How can there be different colored puppies within one litter? This genetic information helps determine many of the characteristics of the offspring. It also helps determine the overall health of the child by regulating many physiological characteristics such as the condition of the heart and lungs, as well as brain and blood chemistry. How much of our physiological makeup is determined by genetics, and how much is determined by other factors such as personal choice and environment? This question is a source of ongoing debate in both scientific and philosophical communities. If ever we are able to answer this question, the answer will likely be complex and nuanced. In this unit, we will focus on a direct link between genetic information and visible traits. This will allow us to discuss how genetic information can be passed from one generation to the next and how these genes affect the later generation. We will focus on simple examples of traits that are clearly visible and have a direct correlation to genetics. Why do children look like their parents? How do rose growers get so many different colors of roses — pink, red, white, yellow, purple, peach, striped, and many more? How can there be different-colored puppies within one litter? This genetic information helps determine many of the characteristics of the offspring. It also helps determine the overall health of the child by regulating many physiological characteristics, such as the condition of the heart and lungs, as well as brain and blood chemistry. How much of our physiological makeup is determined by genetics, and how much is determined by other factors, such as personal choice and environment? This question is a source of ongoing debate in both scientific and philosophical communities. If we are ever able to answer this question, the answer will likely be complex. In this unit, you will focus on the direct links between genetic information and visible traits. This will help you to learn how genetic information can be passed from one generation to the next and how these genes affect the later generation. We will introduce simple examples of traits that are clearly visible and have a direct correlation to genetics. Gregor Mendel was a nineteenth-century Augustinian monk in Bohemia, a country in Europe that is now part of the Czech Republic. As you can see, 100 percent of the offspring have the Bb genotype, but 100 percent also show the purple phenotype. You might expect the offspring to show a phenotype that somehow blends the parental phenotypes. Sometimes this happens, but in the case of these pea plants' flower color, the purple allele (B) is dominant over the white allele (b). Stated another way, the white allele (b) is recessive to the purple allele (B). In many, but not all, cases it is possible to pinpoint a phenotype to one allele. Remember, alleles are variants of genes, and genes code for proteins. If the allele codes for a mutated enzyme that does not perform as expected, the resulting flower would be white. A flower with BB or Bb genotype has the normal enzyme — purple pigment is produced — and even the heterozygous flower, which has only one allele for the normal enzyme, produces enough pigment for the flower to be purple. The bb flower, on the other hand, has no functioning enzyme, so the flower remains white. There are some easily observable human traits that follow the Mendelian inheritance pattern, showing a dominant and a recessive allele. Examples include unattached earlobes (dominant) versus attached earlobes (recessive). The widow’s peak hairline, a cleft chin, rolling tongue, and hitchhiker’s thumb are others. Does the ability to roll your tongue make you more fit for survival? Not really! One common misconception is that dominant traits are more favorable from an evolutionary point of view. Another is that dominant traits are more common. We cannot stress enough that traits, and particularly human traits, are determined by complex interactions between genes and environment. In the early days of genetics, simple observable traits were used to describe inheritance patterns. Once the molecular basis of inheritance was established, scientists could tackle more complex interactions. You will learn more about this in the Molecular Genetics unit. In 1853, Mendel left the monastery for two years to study at the University of Vienna, where he learned about mathematics and botany. When he returned to the monastery, he began investigating how plants passed on their characteristics to their offspring. Mendel set out to understand inheritance by breeding pea plants. By collecting peas from pods produced after fertilizing two parent pea plants, Mendel could then grow those peas into new pea plants and see how these offspring resemble or differ from the parent plants. The heritable characteristics that Mendel studied included seed color and shape, pod color and shape, flower color and position, and stem length. Each of the traits that Mendel studied occurs only in two forms, or phenotypes. For instance, pea flower color is a trait that can exhibit either the purple phenotype or the white phenotype. Mendel used so-called true-breeding plants, which means that they always looked like their progenitors (selected over several years). He chose two varieties: one that always had purple flowers, and one that always had white flowers. Next, Mendel crossed the purple variety with the white variety. He manipulated his plants so he could control which plant pollinated which. In plants, pollen is the male gamete, landing on the flower to fuse with the ovule—the female gamete. The resulting zygote will give rise to the seed, or embryo. When Mendel crossed purple and white flowers, the first generation of plants, which he designated “F1,” were all purple. Somehow, purple was “stronger,” or dominant over the white. So if the alleles of the purple flowers were symbolized by “B," then the allele corresponding to white flowers was “weaker” and is symbolized by “b.” If the genotype of the parent purple flower is BB, then the genotype of the parent white plant will be bb. Let’s see what happened during that first cross. You will use a tool called a Punnett square, which graphically shows the possible combinations of the gametes of the parents. In a Punnett square, you place the possible gametes from each parent along the top and left side of the square. What you are representing here is the Law of Segregation: during meiosis I, the chromosome pair separates, resulting in haploid gametes. Each gamete will have only one allele. For centuries, humans observed traits in themselves and in the animals and plants surrounding them. They realized that they were passed on from one generation to another, although not in a completely unequivocal way. Breeders of plants and animals figured out ways to enhance their traits by selecting individuals with the desired characteristics and crossing them with each other. But it was not until the experiments of Gregor Mendel in the nineteenth century that patterns of inheritance started to become clearer. Based on a simple model, the pea plant, with easily observable phenotypes governing flower colors, seed shape, and so on, he proposed that hereditary information was passed along in discrete units he called genes (at that time DNA was not known), and that genes could have two alternatives or alleles. According to Mendel’s laws, alleles segregate during sexual reproduction, and combine independently from each other. For centuries, humans observed traits in themselves and in the animals and plants surrounding them. They realized that they were passed on from one generation to another, although not in a completely unequivocal way. Breeders of plants and animals figured out ways to enhance their traits by selecting individuals with the desired characteristics and crossing them with each other. But it was not until the experiments of Gregor Mendel in the nineteenth century that patterns of inheritance started to become clearer. Based on a simple model, the pea plant, with easily observable phenotypes governing flower colors, seed shape, and so on, he proposed that hereditary information was passed along in discrete units he called genes (at that time DNA was not known), and that genes could have two alternatives or alleles. According to Mendel’s laws, alleles segregate during sexual reproduction, and combine independently from each other.  Mendel’s next experiment involved crossing the heterozygous purple-flowered offspring that resulted from his first cross. Let’s see what happened. The table below represents a Punnett square — like the one seen on the previous page — used to describe the results of Mendel’s first experimental set of pea plants, designated F1. The gametes from the F1 generation, Bb, are filled in at the top and on the sides. Fill in the center of the Punnett square to see the possible offspring genotypes and phenotypes for the next generation, F2. Albinism is a recessive disorder related to the deficiency of an enzyme responsible for the synthesis of the pigment melanin. Only homozygous recessive individuals present the albino phenotype. Each chromosome contains many genes. How this happens will be discussed in the Molecular Genetics Unit. The Proteins module discussed the variety of roles proteins can play in a living organism. Some proteins produced by living organisms determine the traits we can observe. These visible traits are called the phenotype of an organism. The color of the flower is one of the observable traits, or the phenotype of the plant. The genetic information that produces these traits is called the genotype of an organism. Depending on the pigment production, the flowers can have a variety of different colors. Flower color is determined by specific genes in the cells. In this unit, you will learn about the genotype and phenotype of diploid organisms. Diploid cells have two copies of each chromosome; haploid cells have only one copy of each chromosome. Cells that have the same allele are called homozygous (“homo” meaning "same," and “zygous” referring to the reproductive cells produced from meiosis). These cells are called homozygous because all of their reproductive cells (gametes) will have identical alleles. Human chromosomes are numbered from largest to smallest. Each of the 22 pairs of autosomal chromosomes have an identifying number, from 1 to 22; chromosome 1 is the biggest and chromosome 22 is the smallest. As you already know, the pair of sex chromosomes are named either X or Y. The picture that is produced is called a karyotype. Karyotypes can be used to identify chromosomal abnormalities in cells or in developing fetuses. Amniocentesis is a medical procedure used to sample fetal cells from a pregnant mother. These cells, which are rapidly dividing, can be used to create a karyotype of the fetus. This karyotype can then help identify potential chromosomal abnormalities in the developing child. Abnormalities could include extra chromosomes, missing chromosomes, and even extra or missing pieces of chromosomes. This karyotype has an extra chromosome 21. This condition is more commonly called “Down syndrome.” There are relatively few examples of such large-scale chromosomal anomalies. Down syndrome results from an extra copy of one of the smallest chromosomes. Extra or missing copies of sex chromosomes can also result in viable embryos. Embryos with extra or missing chromosomes are often nonviable, and other chromosomal anomalies are not generally seen. Aneuploidy is the condition of having too many or too few chromosomes, which results from errors in meiosis. If crossing-over does not occur correctly, the chromosomes can have extra pieces or missing pieces. If the chromosomes do not separate properly during anaphase, the resulting cells can have extra or missing chromosomes. This improper separation of chromosomes is called nondisjunction. Nondisjunction can occur in either meiosis I or meiosis II. The following activity looks at aneuploidy that results from nondisjunction in Meiosis I. If nondisjunction occurs in Meiosis I, Meiosis II will still likely occur normally. The activity below represents the results after Meiosis I if nondisjunction occurs. Drag the correct cells that would result if, after the nondisjunction in Meiosis I, Meiosis II occurs normally. Nondisjunction can also occur at Meiosis II. Complete the following activity to learn more. There are around seven billion people on our planet, and everybody looks at least a little different from everyone else. Siblings are different from each other, and even identical twins—who are genetically identical—can show different traits over time. However, when we look at families over several generations, it becomes obvious that certain traits appear generation after generation. How can this extraordinary variability be explained?  In the previous module you learned about the inheritance patterns (Mendelian and non-Mendelian) that were studied using models such as peas, snapdragons, and dogs. Another organism that is often used is the fruit fly Drosophila. Common to these organisms is that they are relatively easy to breed and cross under controlled conditions. They also have a relatively short lifespan, which allows the tracking of traits for many generations. In the case of humans, genetic analysis is much more complicated. We live under a variety of conditions, so the environmental influences are much stronger. Humans choose their mates freely, families are usually smaller, and our lifespan is the same as that of the geneticists. Much information about transmission of human traits comes from the study of pedigrees, a chart of genetic connections similar to a family tree. In this module, you’ll learn how to read pedigrees. You’ll also look at the different patterns and factors that affect human inheritance. HGPS is an extremely rare (one case per eight million live births) autosomal dominant disorder characterized by accelerated aging. The defective protein accumulates in the nuclear membrane of the cells, affecting many cellular processes. Symptoms start before age two, with thinning skin and weak muscles and bones. Aging is estimated to be eight to 10 times faster than normal. Patients die in their teens from stroke or heart attack. How do people “get” progeria? It is important to remember that because progeria patients die at a very young age, progeria is not inherited, but only appears as a random mutation. This explains its fortunately very low incidence. This module explored the application of inheritance patterns to human characteristics and hereditary disorders. Many human conditions follow the Mendelian pattern, with a recessive allele being responsible for the diseased phenotype most of the time. In other cases, there may be a linkage of genes to a sex chromosome, most commonly the X chromosome. The traits for those genes are called sex-linked traits, and they were originally described by Morgan in his classical fruit fly experiments. Some genetic disorders are caused by errors in the meiotic process leading to a lack of separation of chromosome pairs, called nondisjunction. These disorders can be visualized by using karyotypes. Pedigrees or family trees are very useful to trace genetic traits in families. Following the trail of a particular disorder in a pedigree can clarify what its inheritance pattern is, and can provide useful information for genetic counseling. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. There are around 7 billion people on our planet, and everybody looks at least a little different from everyone else. Siblings are different from each other, and even identical twins—who are genetically identical—can show different traits over time. However, when we look at families over several generations, it becomes obvious that certain traits appear generation after generation. How can this extraordinary variability be explained? In the previous module you learned about the inheritance patterns (Mendelian and non-Mendelian) that were studied using models such as peas, snapdragons, or even dogs. Another organism that is often used is the fruit fly Drosophila. Common to these organisms is that the-y are relatively easy to breed and cross under controlled conditions. They also have a relatively short lifespan, which allows the tracking of traits for many generations. In the case of humans, genetic analysis is much more complicated. We live under a variety of conditions, so the environmental influences are much stronger. Humans choose their mates freely, families are usually smaller, and our lifespan is the same as the geneticists’. Much information about transmission of human traits comes from the study of pedigrees, a chart of genetic connections similar to a family tree. In this module, we’ll learn how to read pedigrees. We’ll also look at the different patterns and factors that affect human inheritance. Many human traits are clear-cut and easy to test. These include the ability to bend back the thumb nearly 90 degrees (known as “hitchhiker’s thumb”), to roll the tongue into a U-shape, and to taste a bitter chemical called phenylthiocarbamide. One of the alleles is dominant, and the other is recessive. Human genetic disorders following a Mendelian pattern are the least common. Most of those tend to be recessive, meaning that the defective allele causing the disorder is recessive. That means only homozygous recessive individuals will show the disorder. Other disorders may be dominant, wherein the defective allele causing the disorder is dominant. In this case, the presence of only one allele is enough to provoke the appearance of the disorder, and only homozygous recessive individuals show the healthy phenotype. Sex chromosomes are of two types: X and Y. Males have one X and one Y chromosome (XY), and females have two copies of the X chromosome (XX). The term “autosomal” refers to chromosomes that are not sex determining. Due to the fact that the male Y chromosome is very small and contains only genes related to sex determination, sex-linked disorders are due to defective alleles on the X chromosome. The following table shows the inheritance patterns of some human genetic disorders and abnormalities. The accumulation of the defective huntingtin results in problems with muscle coordination and later psychiatric issues and dementia. By Al Aumuller, New York World-Telegram and the Sun (Woody Guthrie) Public Domain Pedigrees are maps that can be used to trace genetic traits through generations of individuals. Pedigrees use the following symbols: Pedigrees can be used to determine if the trait being studied is dominant, recessive, or X-linked. A trait is recessive if a child anywhere in the family has the trait and both parents do not. This must be the case because if the child has the trait and the parents do not, the only possible genotype option is: It would not be possible for an affected individual to show a dominant trait that was not expressed in his or her parents, because this sets up an impossible situation where the child would have an allele that could not come from either parent: If there is no case where a child expresses the trait but neither parent does, then the pedigree is likely to be dominant. In a real-world situation, researchers would need to look at hundreds of individuals to be sure that this conclusion is statistically significant. But for the purposes of this activity, you will look at only a few individuals. A trait that is significantly more common in males than females is likely to be X-linked. Again, in a real-world situation a much larger sample size would be needed to be sure of these conclusions. The X-linked traits used here are also recessive, so you will notice that they show both characteristics of being X-linked (mostly males) and characteristics of being recessive (child demonstrating a trait that neither parent has). Pedigrees can also be used to determine the genotype of individuals. Not all individuals can be identified, however; so it is important to know when the genotype is not identifiable. To determine the genotypes of individuals, one must first determine if the trait is dominant, recessive, or X-linked. Answer the following questions with reference to the following pedigree. Note: Choice "A_" in the questions below indicates that the second allele cannot be determined from the pedigree. In humans, determination of sex is dependent on a special pair of chromosomes called the sex chromosomes. The other 22 pairs are called autosomes. Below is a Punnett square of a cross between two fruit flies. The phenotypes of the offspring and the parents are given. Using what you know about the genotypes for eye color in fruit flies and the phenotype information in the chart below, determine which chromosome allele (X+ , Xw, or Y) belongs in boxes I, II, III, or IV. Boxes I and II represent the genotype of the female parent, and boxes III and IV represent the genotype of the male parent. The trait of white eyes in fruit flies is a sex-linked trait. It is located on a sex chromosome, so it occurs at different rates in males and females. So do some more serious diseases, including Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which causes progressive muscle weakness. People with this disorder rarely live past the age of 25. There are two types of sex chromosomes — X and Y. The X chromosome is large and carries many genes unrelated to sex. The Y chromosome, on the other hand, is much smaller and carries only the genes containing the instructions for “maleness,” which are molecular signals that instruct the fetal gonads (sex organs) to develop as testes and not ovaries. In the absence of the Y chromosome, a fetus develops as female. Females have two copies of the X chromosome (XX), while males carry one X and one Y (XY). When gametes are formed, females will have only gametes that contain the X chromosome; males will have some gametes with X and others with Y. For a male baby, a Y gamete from the father has to meet the mother’s gamete. So the determination of a baby’s sex depends on which gamete the father contributes. About one out of every ten men is color-blind. People who are color-blind are unable to distinguish between certain colors, especially green and red. On the other hand, only about one out of every 200 women is color-blind. Why is there such a drastic difference between the sexes? In 1910, an American geneticist named Thomas Hunt Morgan made an observation that began to shed some light on this question. One morning, when peering through a hand lens at a male fruit fly, he noticed that it didn’t look right. Instead of having the normally brilliant red eyes of wild-type Drosophila melanogaster, this fly had white eyes. Morgan was particularly interested in how traits were inherited and distributed in developing organisms, and he wondered what caused this fly's eyes to deviate from the norm. He bred the white-eyed male with several true-bred, red-eyed females and obtained all red-eyed flies in the first generation. (Remember, true-bred organisms have a homozygous genotype.) Morgan did crosses between the F1 hybrids, and he observed the following: 75 percent of the offspring were red-eyed, and 25 percent were white-eyed. So far, the results supported the Mendelian pattern of 3:1. But then he noticed something odd: all of the white-eyed flies were male. Morgan wondered why the white-eye trait was associated with the male sex. In Morgan’s time, the idea that an additional pair of chromosomes was responsible for sex determination had just emerged. There were two plausible possibilities: either the trait was somehow linked to the sex chromosome, or the white-eyed trait was lethal for females, meaning that females with the phenotype would not develop past the egg stage. Morgan conducted a series of crosses using the F2 generation, and obtained some white-eyed females also, showing that the white-eyed characteristic was not lethal for females. In a famous subsequent experiment, Morgan crossed white-eyed females with white-eyed males, obtaining only white-eyed offspring. This cross confirmed that the eye color trait was linked to the female sex chromosome. Because of this, the males are what is called hemizygous for this trait: they have only one allele present, which is in the X chromosome. The Y chromosome does not have the same genes as the X chromosome. Males have no heterozygous option: they either have the dominant allele (red-eyed) or the recessive allele (white-eyed). However, long before the molecular basis of inheritance was known, humans observed traits and often manipulated them when breeding plants or animals with desirable characteristics. In this unit you learned, through some of the groundbreaking experiments and observations of scientists such as Mendel and Morgan, the most common inheritance patterns. From simple dominance to polygenic inheritance, there are many ways the discrete units of inheritance Mendel called “genes” (without knowing precisely what they were), can combine and influence each other. However, not everything is determined by genes. Further studies have shown that the environment plays an important role in how those genes are or are not expressed. In the next unit, you will learn about how the genetic information is inherited, expressed, and regulated at the molecular level. The A and B alleles code for two versions of the protein, while the O allele is mutated and does not code for a functional protein. A and B are codominant, which means that if the individual has both A and B alleles, he will be of AB blood group, which expresses both proteins. On the other hand, O is recessive, so only the homozygous recessive individuals will have an O phenotype (blood group O). When representing the three different alleles for blood type we represent the codominant alleles by A and B for the A protein and B protein respectively. The recessive O allele is represented by lower case ‘i.’ When referring to human blood groups, you may have heard references to “A negative” or “O positive.” The term “positive/negative” here refers to the presence or absence of a membrane glycoprotein called Rh. The Rh glycoprotein was named after Rhesus monkeys because some of the original studies on the Rh factor were done on these animals. The expression of this protein presents a simple dominance pattern, with the presence of the Rh molecule (Rh positive) being dominant over the absence (Rh negative). If the immune system of an Rh negative person is exposed to Rh positive red blood cells, it will produce antibodies against the Rh molecule. The next time the immune system meets Rh positive red blood cells, the antibodies will attack and destroy them. This scenario is rather unusual, except when a mother who is Rh negative is carrying an Rh positive baby. After the first pregnancy, her immune system develops anti-Rh antibodies, and in subsequent pregnancies these antibodies can cross the placenta and attack the red blood cells of the fetus. This results in hemolytic anemia, and could seriously affect the fetus. Luckily, Rh negative mothers today receive an anti-Rh antibody injection that prevents development of the anti-Rh response. Heterozygotes (having one “good” and one “bad” allele for hemoglobin) will present both types of hemoglobin. So while the phenotype can be considered intermediate, in fact it is actually a case of codominance. Gregor Mendel’s experiments that you studied earlier involve simple dominance, in which the offspring will show a trait from either one parent or the other, not a blend of those traits. In a case of simple dominance, crossing a red flower and a white one will produce a red flower, not a pink flower. If you think about traits that children inherit from their parents, you will realize that this does not always happen. Continued genetic research has revealed that inheritance is usually more complicated than simple dominance. Some genes follow Mendelian patterns of inheritance, but many are governed instead by non-Mendelian inheritance. For example, although the cross of a true-bred purple-flowered pea plant with a true-bred white-flowered pea plant will result in purple flowers, the cross of true-bred red flower and true-bred white flower snapdragons will result in offspring with pink flowers. If the pink snapdragons are crossed with each other, pink, red, and white flowers will appear in a 2:1:1 ratio, respectively. How can this happen? In this inheritance pattern, called incomplete dominance, the heterozygous genotype exhibits an intermediate phenotype. What is the difference between the purple heterozygotes of the pea flowers and the pink heterozygotes of the snapdragon flowers? In the case of the pea plant, the presence of a single allele in the heterozygous plant was enough to provide all the pigment needed to give the dominant purple color. However, in the case of the snapdragon, the presence of only one allele does not provide enough pigment to give the flower a fully red hue—but there is enough pigment to tint it partially, thus providing the pink color of the heterozygous flower. The following Punnett square represents incomplete dominance. Fill in the genotypes and the corresponding phenotypes for the offspring of these parents, both of which have a genotype of Rr. Some traits, such as skin color and height, are determined by multiple genes. In humans, skin color is determined by at least three different genes, and probably more. This concept is called polygenic inheritance. Variation along a continuum often indicates that a trait has polygenic inheritance. Most visible traits are polygenic, and their genetic patterns are rather complicated. In some instances the polygenic effect is rather straightforward. This situation is called epistasis. In epistasis: For instance, in Labrador retrievers, the allele for black fur color (B) is dominant with regard to the allele for brown (“chocolate”) fur color (b). However, there are also yellow Labs. The coats of yellow labs are created through epistasis. The reason for this distinction is an interaction between the two genes. Being homozygous for e — that is, having the ee genotype (no melanin deposition) — results in fur with neither brown nor black pigment, which appears yellow, independent of the black or chocolate allele (B or b). The Punnett square below represents a dihybrid cross for Labrador retrievers, similar to the one that you saw in the previous module. Based on the given genotype of the offspring and that Labradors exhibit polygenic inheritance, drag the corresponding phenotype that goes with each genotype. Many single genes can have numerous different effects, rather than just two. This capability is called pleiotropy. People with Marfan syndrome are usually tall and thin with long arms and legs, and they are at risk for heart disease and eye problems. Characteristics that are influenced by environmental as well as genetic factors are called multifactorial. The idea of “nature versus nurture” — in other words, the relative influence of genetics versus environmental factors — has been and still is debated. Just looking at the genes of a given organism will not determine how that organism will develop and act. Even identical twins will show different characteristics, depending on the environment in which they live. Everyone is a product of their environment as well as their genetics. Even when influenced by the environment, phenotypes have a normal range of expression. For instance, human height varies based on nutrition and genetics, but not many people are shorter than 4½ feet or taller than 7 feet. The range of phenotypic possibilities is called the norm of reaction. Hydrangeas are blue in acidic soil with available aluminum, and they are pink in alkaline soil without available aluminum. Some human characteristics have a narrow norm of reaction, such as blood type. Others have a wide norm of reaction, such as the number of blood cells in humans, which varies depending on factors that include physical fitness, presence or history of infections, and even the altitude at which a person lives. The environment also affects human genes. Serotonin, a neurotransmitter that acts inside brain cells, lowers anxiety and depression during traumatic times. That does not mean that the person is always depressed, but if the environment produces stress, the person may become depressed more easily than a person with unmutated serotonin transporter genes. That way, the toxic buildup is prevented and the children can develop normally. The relationship between alleles is not always as simple as dominant/recessive. Sometimes the resulting phenotype is an intermediate of the dominant and the recessive phenotypes (as in incomplete dominance). Other times, two dominant alleles are expressed concurrently (as in codominance). It is important to remember that genes alone do not determine everything — the environment plays an important role in shaping characteristics, too. There is lots to explore in the “nature versus nurture” relationship. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information.  The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Synthesis of a polypeptide from the information in an RNA sequence. Different organisms prefer one codon over another. All the genetic information in an organism. Cytoplasmic structures which function as assembly sites for proteins. In this unit, you learned about genetic information from the molecular point of view. Comparison of eukaryotic and prokaryotic genes and genomes revealed important differences. Eukaryotic genes are often fragmented: exons are interrupted by introns, which are removed from the final mRNA. The module also addressed the interactions between genes and environment. The knowledge of molecular genetics can be applied to medicine. One application discussed in the Biotechnology module involves production of human proteins in bacterial, yeast or other cells grown in laboratory. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. In this unit, you learned about genetic information from the molecular point of view. Comparison of eukaryotic and prokaryotic genes and genomes revealed important differences. Eukaryotic genes are often fragmented: exons are interrupted by introns, which are removed from the final mRNA. The module also addressed the interactions between genes and environment. The knowledge of molecular genetics can be applied to medicine. One application discussed in the Biotechnology module involves production of human proteins in bacterial, yeast or other cells grown in laboratory. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Rice in the figure above shows variation in shape and color of seeds/grains. People also come in different shapes and sizes. What determines physical traits that characterize a person: hair color, eye color, height, weight? How about behavior: some people are risk-takers, others get easily anxious; some people love to be in large noisy crowds, others prefer quiet and solitude. What is more important in determining physical and behavioral traits: genetics or environment? This classic “nature vs. nurture” argument should not be phrased as “either/or,” because the answer is “both.” The interactions between genes and environment determine the traits. A better question to ask is “To what extent is each trait determined by genetics and to what extent by environment?” The answer will vary by trait and is still being researched (it is not a trivial question to answer, and these numbers are only rough estimate):  Estimated genetic contribution In Molecular Genetics, we will discuss the molecular basis of traits that characterize the organisms. We want to understand on the molecular level how genetic information is organized and used by living organisms. Finally, we’ll look at how humans are able to manipulate genes through biotechnology. In the Molecular Genetics unit, you will learn about the molecular basis of traits that characterize the organisms. You will develop an understanding on the molecular level of how genetic information is organized and used by living organisms. People also come in different shapes and sizes. What determines physical traits that characterize a person: hair color, eye color, height, weight? How about behavior: some people are risk-takers, others get easily anxious; some people love to be in large noisy crowds, others prefer quiet and solitude. What is more important in determining physical and behavioral traits — genetics or environment? This classic “nature vs. nurture” argument should not be phrased as “either/or,” because the answer is “both.” The interactions between genes and environment determine the traits.  A better question to ask is “To what extent is each trait determined by genetics and to what extent by environment?” The answer will vary by trait and is still being researched. It is not a trivial question to answer, and the numbers below are only rough estimates. Finally, you will examine how humans are able to manipulate genes through biotechnology.  The Origin of Replication – where to start  Following the rules  Overcoming Chromosome Shortening During replication of circular chromosomes, such as in bacteria, the leading strand of synthesis from one replication fork eventually meets the lagging strand of synthesis for the other replication fork and there is complete synthesis of the entire chromosome. For linear chromosomes this same process happens between two origins of replication. While the staggered end of the chromosome is not avoided, the net length of the chromosome is recovered or even lengthened. The diagrams below demonstrate how lengthening of the chromosome can be accomplished using the enzyme telomerase. The telomerase enzyme is a polymerase like enzyme that carries its own template with the template having overlap complementarity with the 3’ end of the chromosome. The criteria for polymerization are met, a template and a primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, and the telomerase lengthens the 3’ strand of the chromosome.  Being creative with the rules  Polymerase Chain Reaction  View PCR tutorial These are referred to as the forward primer and the reverse primer. The sample is cooled in the presence of the primers and each primer binds to its complementary strand. Such an enzyme was found from thermophilic bacteria (bacteria that thrive at extremely high temperatures). The reaction tube is put in an instrument called a thermocycler that can be programmed to automatically raise and lower the reaction temperature. These primers are the equivalent of the forward and reverse primers of PCR. However, if one of the dNTPs was substituted by a NTP that had no hydroxyl on either the 2’ or the 3’ position, a dideoxyNTP (ddNTP), it would be incorporated into the growing DNA strand through the 5’ position in a complementary position opposite its complementary base on the template strand but synthesis from that point forward would be terminated due to the absence of a hydroxyl on the 3’ position. The dideoxyNTP is referred to as a suicide substrate. If this experiment is performed for each individual nucleotide, the complete sequence of the template can be accomplished. The Role of Telomeres Mismatch Repair For a typical prokaryotic (bacterial) chromosome there is one origin of replication and synthesis proceeds at a rate of approximately 500 bp(base pairs)/sec. Thus if a typical bacterial chromosome is 2x10e6 (two million) bp in length then the replication time of the chromosome would be about 30 minutes which is consistent with the life cycle of the typical bacterial being 30 to 40 minutes. The replication rate for the eukaryotic replication fork has been measured to be approximately 50 bp/sec. This means that for a eukaryotic chromosome of 10e8 bp to completely replicate starting at one origin of replication it would take approximately 23 days. To explain the enormous difference in time scale, it has been found that the eukaryotic chromosome has multiple origins of replication. The eukaryotic replication units have upwards of 80 origins which means the replication time is reduced to approximately 7 hrs. There are basically three types of mistakes that the enzyme can make during the synthesis: substitution of an incorrect base, insertion of an extra base or failure to insert a base resulting in a deletion. In the context of Replication it is important to touch on at least a couple of the means by which the system corrects errors or reduces the frequency of errors.  Editing the Synthesis Equally important to the organism is the ability to edit errors during synthesis by either preventing the incorporation of the incorrect base and/or by removing an incorrectly incorporated base before the next base is added. These editing functions can reduce the error frequency by 2 orders of magnitude. However, even this editing function does not get the error rate to an acceptable number for survival of an organism. It is to be noted that while different proteins may be used, the basic process is the same and follows the direction/rules dictated by the mechanism of the specific enzymes. The combination of these other editing and repair functions reduces the error rate by another 2 orders of magnitude thus reducing the error frequency to an acceptable level. The process is fundamentally the same in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Building the Complementary Strand A small protein called SSB (Single Stranded Binding protein) coats the open complex.  The Open Complex From this point we will focus on the process of replication at one of the replication forks. Remember that the replication will be occurring simultaneously from both forks in opposite directions. This strand on which continuous synthesis takes place is referred to as the Leading Strand. In the animation you should be able to identify each of the stages of synthesis on each of the strands. At the end of the synthesis you will see that the leading strand has a continuous double helix generated while the lagging strand has a discontinuous set of Okazaki fragments that must be connected before the synthesis is complete. This process is referred to as nick translation. The number of these tandem repeats at each location in the genome can differ from individual to individual, with 5 to 20 percent of individuals having the same number of tandem repeats at the same location. Variations in the number of tandem repeats are detected by the polymerase chain reaction, using primers that bind to unique sequences on the edges of the repeat. To increase the reliability of a positive match between the two samples, a total of 13 different locations of tandem repeats are amplified, and the number of repeats at each location are compared. Use PCR to solve the following crime. A homicide has occurred, and you are trying to determine which of your suspects is most likely the culprit. You collect blood from the crime scene, the victim, and each suspect. The PCR products are separated using a technique called gel electrophoresis. An image of the gel is shown below. In 1918, following the Russian Revolution, Czar Nicholas II and his entire family were reportedly executed by the communists. It was rumored at the time that two of the Czar’s children, Anastasia and Alexei, escaped and survived. Later examination of the gravesite showed that two bodies were indeed missing, suggesting that the rumor was true. A woman living in Germany, Ann, claimed that she was Anastasia. How can one kind of molecule contain all the instructions for making complicated living beings like ourselves? It might be hard to imagine that 4 different “letters” can communicate so much information. But think about the English language, which can represent a huge amount of information using just 26 letters. Even more profound is the binary code used to write computer programs. This code contains only ones and zeros, and think of all the things your computer can do. The genetic information is first copied to another nucleic acid polymer, RNA (ribonucleic acid), preserving the order of the nucleotide bases. Genes that contain instructions for making proteins are converted to messenger RNA (mRNA). Other genes produce RNA molecules that are required for protein synthesis, transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). In order for the stored information to be useful, cells must be able to access the instructions for making specific proteins, so the correct proteins are made in the right place at the right time. Click on the checkboxes to highight the A-T and C-G basepairs. The sugar deoxyribose with the phosphate group forms the scaffold or backbone of the molecule (highlighted in yellow in the figure above). Bases point inward. See how the bigger bases (purines) pair with the smaller ones (pyrimidines). This keeps the width of the double helix constant. Insulin is responsible for regulating blood sugar levels. If insulin does not function correctly, it might be unable to bind to another protein (insulin receptor). Both words are built from the same letters (subunits), but the different order of these subunits results in very different meanings. Use the following key to decode the encrypted message. If you look at people around you, you will probably notice a fairly large variation in height. Some people are taller than you, while others are shorter than you. If you and your parents are relatively short (or tall), you may say that you inherited the short (or tall) stature from your parents. What molecule is involved in the transmission of information from one generation to the next? This protein is produced by the pituitary gland, travels to other tissues, and delivers a signal for the cells to grow and divide. For a signaling protein (hormone) to deliver the signal, there must be a protein that can bind the hormone and receive the signal (receptor protein). The variation in height will result from any of the following: Note that a person who inherits “tall” genes may never grow very tall because of illness or inadequate nutrition. These are examples of how environment and genes interact to produce traits and phenotypes. In the next module, you will learn how the genetic information stored in genes is expressed, resulting in the variety of traits and phenotypes of all organisms. If you look at people around you, you will probably notice a fairly large variation in height. Some people are taller than you, while others are shorter than you. If you and your parents are relatively short (or tall), you may say that you inherited the short (or tall) stature from your parents. What molecule is involved in the transmission of information from one generation to the next? This protein is produced by the pituitary gland, travels to other tissues, and delivers a signal for the cells to grow and divide. For a signaling protein (hormone) to deliver the signal, there must be a protein that can bind the hormone and receive the signal (receptor protein). The variation in height will result from any of the following: Note that a person who inherits “tall” genes may never grow very tall because of illness or inadequate nutrition. These are examples of how environment and genes interact to produce traits and phenotypes. In the next module, you will learn how the genetic information stored in genes is expressed, resulting in the variety of traits and phenotypes of all organisms. This technique was invented by Kary Mullis in 1983. This process can help forensic scientists figure out the identity of a person who left blood at a crime scene. It can also help decide paternity disputes. The table below lists the 3 steps of PCR. Complete the table by dragging the temperature typically used for each step and the description of what happens in each step on the molecular level. Therefore, the reaction is cooled to ~55°C. After this process is complete, the temperature is again raised to 980C and a new cycle begins. Watch the following video to review the steps of PCR. Select from the pull-down list. It also occurs in the mitochondria in animal cells and chloroplasts in plant cells. The term semiconservative refers to the fact that half of the original molecule (one of the two strands in the double helix) is “conserved” in the new molecule. The original strand is referred to as the template strand because it provides the information, or template, for the newly synthesized strand. So if the new nucleotide is always added to the 3’ end of an existing nucleotide, where does the first nucleotide come from? This sequence is called a primer. Bases form pairs (base pairs) in a very specific way. The figure shows how A (adenine) pairs with T (thymine) and G (guanine) pairs with C (cytosine). Also note that a larger base (purine, A or G) always pairs with a smaller base (pyrimidine, C or T). This problem is solved by synthesizing the two strands slightly differently: one new strand grows continuously, the other in bits and pieces. It also occurs in the mitochondria in animal cells and chloroplasts in plant cells. This problem is solved by synthesizing the two strands slightly differently: one new strand grows continuously, the other in bits and pieces. The term semi-conservative refers to the fact that half of the original molecule (one of the two strands in the double helix) is “conserved” in the new molecule. The original strand is referred to as the template strand because it provides the information, or template, for the newly synthesized strand. So if the new nucleotide is always added to the 3’ end of an existing nucleotide, where does the first nucleotide come from? This sequence is called a primer. Bases form pairs (base pairs) in a very specific way. The figure shows how A (adenine) pairs with T (thymine) and G (guanine) pairs with C (cytosine). Also note that a larger base (purine, A or G) always pairs with a smaller base (pyrimidine, C or T). Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information.  The Code The following animation describes the formation of the initiation complex, the elongation of the peptide during synthesis and the termination of the synthesis at the termination or stop codon. The process is fundamentally the same for prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The one notable exception is in the binding of the mRNA with the small subunit of the ribosome during formation of the initiation complex. Prokaryotes do not have a 5’cap to identify the end of the mRNA but they do have a consensus sequence called the Shine-Dalgarno-Sequence at the 5’ end of the mRNA. This sequence is used to align the mRNA with the appropriate site on the ribosomal subunit. In eukaryotic organisms the 5’cap provides the alignment along with multiple initiation factors. Following formation of the initiation complex, the synthesis of protein follows the same sequence in both organisms.  The Consequence or Error In a previous section a discussion of the methods used by the system to minimize these errors has been presented. However, even with editing functions, some errors are generated and result in changing of the reading code used during translation to a protein sequence. These changes are referred to as mutations and can be categorized into four different categories described by the end result of the mutation or change. Four nucleotides taken two at a time would generate 16 possible unique sequences. However, four nucleotides taken 3 at a time would generate 64 different unique sequences. Through experimentation it was found that the universal start code or codon is AUG and three stop codons (UAG, UGA and UAA) were identified. This third base then became known as the wobble base signifying the flexibility the system has in identifying the third base.  The Starting Materials Having identified a code to perform the translation, it is now necessary to describe the process by which the genetic code is used. Four major ingredients are necessary to carry out translation: m-RNA, t-RNA, the ribosome and the initiation factors. Messenger RNA (mRNA) was discussed in the last section with a description of the post-transcriptional modification that convert the pre-mRNA in the nucleus to mature-mRNA in the cytoplasm. The formation of the charged tRNA is a two-step process as depicted in the "Charging" animation below. The Following Learn by Doing contains an animation describing the tRNA structures.  Protein Synthesis  Transcription  The Products of Transcription The product of the process of transcription is RNA. Each of the RNA classes (rRNA, mRNA, and tRNA) is produced during transcription using a different RNA polymerase. Bioselectivity describes the discrimination of a specific RNA polymerase for a specific promoter yielding different RNA products. Equilibrium binding of the polymerase with the promoter explains the differential production of products using the same polymerase and different promoter sequences.  The Operon The organization of the genetic information on the chromosomes of prokaryotes and eukaryotes is different. In each case, as indicated below, the sequence for initiation of transcription is the promoter and the sequence signaling the end of transcription is the Terminator. In contrast, prokaryotes generally have multiple genes, each coding for a separate product, under the control of a single promoter. The operon also contains the controlling elements for the operon. The control of expression of an operon is the topic for a separate unit.  The Promoter The promoter region of the operon is critical in defining how much or the frequency with which transcription of an operon takes place. Promoters have different sequences. The sigma subunit binds to the different promoter sequences with different affinities. In the illustration below, the sigma subunit binds to both of the promoters and a dissociation constant, Kd, can be written for each binding. Promoters can be characterized as being strong or weak promoters depending on their affinity for RNA polymerase. The result of a strong promoter with a high affinity (tight binding) to RNA polymerase is a greater frequency of starting transcription from that promoter. Therefore, more product from transcription initiated at a strong promoter is possible compared to product formation initiated from a weak promoter in the same amount of time.  RNA Synthesis Once RNA polymerase binds to the promoter, initiation of RNA synthesis or Transcription proceeds. The following animation depicts the steps of transcription. BRCA genes are therefore considered tumor suppressor genes. Mutations in these genes produce a hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome in affected families. Women with harmful mutations in either BRCA1 or BRCA2 have an increased risk of breast cancer that is about five times the normal risk, and a risk of ovarian cancer that is about 10 to 30 times normal. While mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for only five to ten percent of all breast cancer cases in women, it is suggested that women with familial breast or ovarian cancer (when several female close relatives have or had cancer) be tested for BRCA mutations. Testing positive for BRCA mutations does not mean the person will definitely get breast cancer, because there are many other genetic and environmental factors involved. However, having this information may help those individuals to take preventive measures, such as more frequent mammograms. BRCA genes are therefore considered tumor suppressor genes. Mutations in these genes produce a hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome in affected families. Women with harmful mutations in either BRCA1 or BRCA2 have an increased risk of breast cancer that is about five times the normal risk, and a risk of ovarian cancer that is about 10 to 30 times normal. While mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for only five to ten percent of all breast cancer cases in women, it is suggested that women with familial breast or ovarian cancer (when several female close relatives have or had cancer) be tested for BRCA mutations. Testing positive for BRCA mutations does not mean the person will definitely get breast cancer, because there are many other genetic and environmental factors involved. However, having this information may help those individuals to take preventive measures, such as more frequent mammograms. Transcription and translation are often confused. Transcription is copying the information without changing the language. This word comes from the same root as scribe, a word that describes someone who made copies of books in medieval times. Now, compare transcription to translation. Note that there are exceptions to the central dogma. Watch the animation, and then label still frames of the animation in the Learn By Doing activity. Transcription and translation are often confused. Transcription is copying the information without changing the language. This word comes from the same root as scribe, a word that describes someone who made copies of books in medieval times. Now, compare transcription to translation. Note that there are exceptions to the central dogma. Watch the animation, and then label still frames of the animation in the Learn By Doing activity. In this module, we will focus on how this information is expressed. Instead, nerve cells make RNA copies of the genes that encode proteins required for signaling. Even cells of the same type may express different genes and therefore produce different proteins, depending on their needs or environmental conditions. Sex hormones are not produced until the beginning of puberty. None of the processes discussed so far are free of errors. Errors can be made during transcription if incorrect nucleotides are incorporated into the growing RNA strands. The mutation causes hemoglobin to form long rods inside red blood cells. As a result, it is difficult for the cells to pass through blood vessels. In particular the position numbers need fixing so that there are consistent spaces between the numbers; each should be a single digit. The end result should look something like this: Wild-Type Sequence Such heritable changes are referred to as mutations. These mutations include substitution of a single nucleotide base and insertion or deletion of one or more bases. Deletion of one nucleotide: introduces frame shift Deletion of three nucleotides removes information, but no frame shift. There are many possible variations on the mutation types above. Compare the sentences above resulting from different types of mutation: Does the meaning of the message remain recognizable? The activity below will help you summarize key points from your comparison. In this activity, we will demonstrate the mutations described above on a short protein sequence. None of the processes discussed so far are free of errors. Errors can be made during transcription if incorrect nucleotides are incorporated into the growing RNA strands. The mutation causes hemoglobin to form long rods inside red blood cells. As a result, it is difficult for the cells to pass through blood vessels. Analyze both sequences and answer the questions below. Wild-Type Sequence Such heritable changes are referred to as mutations. These mutations include substitution of a single nucleotide base and insertion or deletion of one or more bases. Deletion of one nucleotide: introduces frame shift Deletion of three nucleotides removes information, but no frame shift. There are many possible variations on the mutation types above. Compare the sentences above resulting from different types of mutation: Does the meaning of the message remain recognizable? The activity below will help you summarize key points from your comparison. In this activity, we will demonstrate the mutations described above on a short protein sequence. In this module you learned about transcription and translation. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. In this module you learned about transcription and translation. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. In RNA, the base T is absent and U is present instead. As you know, A pairs with T, but because T is replaced by U in RNA, A pairs with U in RNA. and the bottom stand is used as a template to produce the RNA copy, the sequence of the RNA will be: Determine whether the following describe transcription only, replication only or both. The goal of translation is to make proteins. These three bases are called codons or triplets. It is used to signal the start of most protein-coding regions in the mRNA; thus, it is the start codon. The same codon is used if methionine occurs at an internal position in the protein sequence. As a result, genes from one type of organism can be transferred to, and expressed in, the cells of another organism. You will learn more about these kinds of technologies later in this unit. Examine the genetic code table and complete the Learn By Doing activity to make sure you understand how to use the table. The first letter in the codon is on the left. The second is on the top, and the third is on the right. Translation from one language to another requires a dictionary, a book that connects words in two different languages. That molecule is transfer RNA (tRNA). Each tRNA contains three bases that can pair with a particular codon in mRNA (complementary base pairing). The last type of RNA molecule that is critical for translation is ribosomal RNA (rRNA). rRNAs are components of the ribosome. The ribosome is a large macromolecular complex composed of rRNA and ribosomal proteins. Some ribosomes are located in the cytosol and translate cytosolic proteins. In the exercise below, you will simulate the process of transcription and translation and build a small protein. Complete the activity and then answer the questions below. The goal of translation is to make proteins. These three bases are called codons or triplets. It is used to signal the start of most protein-coding regions in the mRNA; thus, it is the start codon. The same codon is used if methionine occurs at an internal position in the protein sequence. As a result, genes from one type of organism can be transferred to, and expressed in, the cells of another organism. You will learn more about these kinds of technologies later in this unit. Examine the genetic code table and complete the Learn By Doing activity to make sure you understand how to use the table. The first letter in the codon is on the left. The second is on the top, and the third is on the right. Translation from one language to another requires a dictionary, a book that connects words in two different languages. That molecule is transfer RNA (tRNA). Each tRNA contains three bases that can pair with a particular codon in mRNA (complementary base pairing). The last type of RNA molecule that is critical for translation is ribosomal RNA (rRNA). rRNAs are components of the ribosome. The ribosome is a large macromolecular complex composed of rRNA and ribosomal proteins. Some ribosomes are located in the cytosol and translate cytosolic proteins. In the exercise below, you will simulate the process of transcription and translation and build a small protein. Complete the activity and then answer the questions below. Post-Transcriptional Modification They each also undergo change or modification before they are used to carry out their specific function. For ribosomal-RNA (rRNA)the modification involves cutting of the original long segment of RNA transcript into fragments. The processing of the RNA takes place in the nucleus and the fragments are used in the nucleoli where ribosomes are assembled. For transfer-RNA (tRNA), the RNA transcript has a segment of the 5’ end removed, a trinucleotide that is common to all tRNAs (ACC) added to the 3’ end, and a short segment of RNA spliced out of the middle of the RNA sequence. The most extensively modified transcript is messenger-RNA (mRNA) in eukaryotic organisms. For this reason, the primary transcript or mRNA before it is modified is referred to as pre-mRNA. Recently, research has found that a number of mRNA sequences undergo what is referred to as alternative-splicing. If normal splicing is from the 3’ end of one exon and the 5’ end of the immediately following exon, imagine the number of possible splices that could occur if the 3’ end of the exon could be joined to the 5’ end of any exon downstream from the first exon. But it would be possible to link exon 1 to exon 3 to create a “new” protein with only two of the three exons. Errors in splicing have also been found to be the cause of certain diseases. You have probably seen Siamese cats--those graceful creatures with darker fur on their faces, tails, and paws. Modern Siamese cats have a defective tyrosinase enzyme; tyrosinase is involved in the synthesis of melanin, the dark pigment of the skin. We will start by clarifying the distinctions between genes, genomes, alleles, and other related terms. In the previous module, we mentioned different kinds of genes. Some genes produce functional RNA (rRNA and tRNAs), but most genes code for proteins. To encode a protein, mRNA needs a protein-coding region and regulatory regions. The untranslated regulatory regions (denoted by UTR) include a site for the ribosome to bind before the start codon (5’ UTR) and a region after the stop codon (3’ UTR). Both 5’ and 3’ UTRs can bind specific proteins involved in regulation of translation (how fast new protein product is built, how fast mRNA is degraded). Note that mRNA in the figure above starts with 5’ UTR, not with the start codon. The start codon signals the start of translation, not transcription. The terminator region signals the end of transcription. Regulatory regions before and after the transcribed region bind regulatory proteins. Putting the regulatory signals associated with RNA production together with those signals on the mRNA, we can represent the central dogma of molecular biology with the following diagram: making possible the large scale production of an important hormone. Review the following key terms introduced in this module. making possible the large scale production of an important hormone. Review the following key terms introduced in this module. In the previous module, we mentioned different kinds of genes. Some genes produce functional RNA (rRNA and tRNAs), but most genes code for proteins. To encode a protein, mRNA needs a protein-coding region and regulatory regions. The untranslated regulatory regions (denoted by UTR) include a site for the ribosome to bind before the start codon (5’ UTR) and a region after the stop codon (3’ UTR). Both 5’ and 3’ UTRs can bind specific proteins involved in regulation of translation (how fast new protein product is built, how fast mRNA is degraded). Note that mRNA in the figure above starts with 5’ UTR, not with the start codon. The start codon signals the start of translation, not transcription. The terminator region signals the end of transcription. Regulatory regions before and after the transcribed region bind regulatory proteins. Putting the regulatory signals associated with RNA production together with those signals on the mRNA, we can represent the central dogma of molecular biology with the following diagram: Throughout the molecular genetics module, we have been pointing out the connections between genotype and phenotype. Here, we will discuss the other important factor in determining the phenotype of an organism: environment. The effects of environment on phenotype can be fairly subtle or pretty dramatic. In certain groups of cold-blooded animals, such as Nile crocodiles, sex is determined by an environmental factor: average temperature during the middle third of the incubation period. Males will only hatch at temperatures between 89.1° and 94.1°F. Nests with higher or lower temperatures will produce predominantly females. How does environment exert its influence on phenotype? Ultimately, if phenotype depends on protein function, then the environment must have a way of modifying the amount and the activity of proteins. Cells and organisms have to respond to changes in their environment. An organism that experiences a sudden increase in temperature will respond with increased expression of genes coding for heat-shock proteins; these proteins protect cells from damaged and unfolded proteins. In the presence of lactose, bacteria can "turn on" the lac operon containing genes required for metabolism of lactose. Regulation of this operon will be discussed in detail on the next page. These changes are short-lived and are not heritable. Environmental toxins and viruses also cause mutations. Only mutations in germ cells result in heritable changes passed on to the next generation of offspring. Lack of lactase in the intestines can lead to gastrointestinal distress (bloating, cramps, diarrhea, etc.) after consumption of moderate to large amounts of dairy products, giving rise to a condition called lactose intolerance. Other people are able to produce lactase well into adulthood. This type of inheritance is epigenetic (from the Greek epi-, meaning over, above, or outside). The results of X-inactivation can be observed in calico or tortoiseshell cats. These cats are almost always female. A female cat (with two X chromosomes) could potentially carry one allele for a black coat and one allele for an orange coat. As a result, her phenotype will end up with patches of two different colors. Cells that inactivate the X chromosome carrying the orange allele will give rise to black patches. The specific pattern of black and orange patches is not heritable because X-inactivation is random. Epigenetic regulation and inheritance has been linked to cancer and obesity, aging and longevity, and other important processes. It is the key mechanism for interactions between genes and environment. In summary, environment can influence phenotype by interacting with the genome in the following ways: After considering individual genes, let’s zoom out and consider a more global view: how genes are organized into genomes. Most bacterial genomes are several million nucleotides long. A good model for supercoiling is an old-fashioned spiral phone cord. If you form the cord into a circle, and then rotate or twist one of the free ends relative to the other, you will introduce supercoils into the cord. Some naturally occurring plasmids carry genes encoding toxins and proteins that make bacteria resistant to antibiotics. Plasmids provide a very useful tool for biotechnology. Scientists use them to insert “foreign” genes into bacteria so they can use the bacteria as “factories” to produce desired proteins. Growing a large amount of bacterial cells is much easier than obtaining large amounts of human cells. However, common principles of regulation are used by both prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, and an understanding of regulation in prokaryotes will help you understand eukaryotic regulation in future studies. Many bacterial genes are expressed at the same time as part of an operon. The expression of the genes in the operon is controlled by a repressor protein. This sequence is the operator. Whether or not the repressor binds to the operator is controlled by the binding of a small molecule to the repressor. The small molecule is either the compound that enters the pathway (for catabolic, or degradative pathways) or the compound that is produced by the pathway (for anabolic, or synthetic pathways). You will explore both of these control mechanisms in the spotlight below. Glucose is a monosaccharide containing one six-membered ring, while lactose is a disaccharide made of glucose linked to galactose. Each of these steps requires the synthesis of an enzyme, which is costly to the bacteria. Consequently, bacteria prefer to use glucose rather than lactose as a fuel source when both sugars are present. The genes for lactose metabolism are contained in an operon known as the lac operon. Three structural genes in the operon, lacZ, lacY, and lacA, encode enzymes required for lactose metabolism. Thus far, we have described what happens when either glucose is present or lactose is present. If both are present, glucose is used first by the bacteria, and only very small amounts of the enzymes for lactose metabolism are made. Complete the following Learn by Doing to understand how glucose turns off the lac operon, even if lactose is present. However, common principles of regulation are used by both prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, and an understanding of regulation in prokaryotes will help you understand eukaryotic regulation in future studies. In addition to the structural genes (the genes that encode the proteins necessary to execute the specific pathway), operons contain regulatory genes and sequences. Below are the regulatory genes and sequences found in an operon: We explore how positive and negative control interact below in the catabolic lac operon and the anabolic Trp operon. Glucose is a monosaccharide containing one six-membered ring, while lactose is a disaccharide made of glucose linked to galactose. Each of these steps requires the synthesis of an enzyme, which is costly to the bacteria. Consequently, bacteria prefer to use glucose rather than lactose as a fuel source when both sugars are present. The genes for lactose metabolism are contained in an operon known as the lac operon. Three structural genes in the operon, lacZ, lacY, and lacA, encode enzymes required for lactose metabolism. Thus far, we have described what happens when either glucose is present or lactose is present. If both are present, glucose is used first by the bacteria, and only very small amounts of the enzymes for lactose metabolism are made. Complete the following Learn by Doing to understand how glucose turns off the lac operon, even if lactose is present. Before we go on, we need to clarify the relationships among these terms. All the hereditary information contained within an organism is called a genome. The field of study that focuses on the properties of genomes is called genomics, which is related to but distinct from genetics, which focuses on individual genes or a group of genes. Genes carry the information required to produce a functional product (protein or RNA). When a protein affects an observable characteristic of an organism (remember, observable characteristics represent an organism’s phenotype), the gene encoding that particular protein can be linked to that characteristic or character (e.g., hair color, eye color, or height). Traits are specific variations in characteristics (e.g., black hair or blue eyes). Some genes can be linked to the development of diseases. Nearly all observable characteristics depend upon multiple genes. What is the connection between genes and traits? Note that in addition to genetic factors, environment also contributes to traits. We will consider environmental effects in a later section. What is the difference between allele and mutation? Mutations can be advantageous, harmful, or neutral (in which case they have no effect on the phenotype). This is a delicate process that must take place under special conditions. It is not possible to determine which cells have taken up the expression plasmid. The cells containing the plasmid would be grown in culture media to a high density of cells to produce a high yield of huGH. The mRNA would be translated on the bacterial ribosomes, producing human growth hormone. The basic steps in producing human growth hormone (HuGH) in bacteria are: These sequences are present on all plasmids, regardless of the type of protein that is being made. In order for the protein to be correctly made the mRNA must contain a ribosome binding site, a start codon, and a stop codon. More recently, proteins used for medical treatment are produced in yeast or cultured mammalian cells that are grown in synthetic growth media. Protein production in yeast or mammalian cells avoids the possibility of having toxic bacterial impurities in the final product. The overall steps in producing the protein in yeast or mammalian cells are very similar to the steps described here, however the overall cost of producing the protein may be somewhat higher. The expression plasmid is introduced into bacteria. And many drugs are produced by bacteria, yeast, or other organisms that have been engineered to express human genes. In this module, you will learn about how biotechnology is used to produce human growth hormone (huGH) for medical applications. It is necessary for the normal growth and metabolism of an individual. Worldwide, one in 4,000 to 10,000 individuals is born without the ability to make sufficient human growth hormone, causing a host of medical problems. Only human growth hormone will produce the desired effects. Historically, the only source of human growth hormone was a small amount that could be extracted from recently deceased individuals (cadavers). this severely limited the supply that was available for medical use. Typically four or six bases are recognized. Examples of two such enzymes are shown below. A shorthand notation for the recognition site is given below each name. The “^” symbol indicates the site of cleavage. The fragments that are produced after cleavage can contain single stranded overhangs (e.g. EcoR1) or have blunt ends, such as with PvuII. in the case of EcoR1 the sequence of the top strand is 5’-GAATTC. Taking the complement of that sequence to generate the bottom strand gives: 5’ GAATTC. The other notable feature is that the cutting position is in the same location on both strands. The symmetry in the recognition sequence and the cutting location is due to the fact that the active form of these enzymes contain two identical polypeptide chains. You can imagine that one chain recognizes and cleaves the top strand. The second chain, because it is identical to the first, recognizes the same sequence on the other strand and cleaves in the same location. Enzymes that cut in the middle of their recognition sequences produce blunt end fragments. Below, the formation of sticky ends after EcoR1 cleavage is illustrated. Because cleavage does not occur in the middle of the recognition sequence, the products have short single strand segments (highlighted). If two fragments are both cut with the same restriction enzyme, they will have complementary sticky ends. We will look at that step in detail on the next page. For now, let’s assume that has been accomplished. Here we want to focus on the properties of the expression plasmid. There are three general types of sequences that are found on expression vectors: The origin of replication on the plasmid is similar to the origin of replication that is found on the bacterial chromosome. This provides a method to select the bacterial cells that contain the plasmid, because if they have the plasmid, they will be able to grow in the presence of an antibiotic while cells that do not have the plasmid will die. The actual mechanism is discussed in the next section. The expression plasmid must also contain a promoter that is recognized by RNA polymerase. The repressor protein can then act as an on-off switch for mRNA production. The most common repressor protein that is used is the lac repressor. You may want to review the properties of the lac operon. This sequence, which will be found at the beginning of the mRNA, will allow the mRNA to bind to the bacterial ribosome, initiating the process of protein synthesis. This segment must be part of the mRNA and it has to occur just before the start codon to position the mRNA correctly on the ribosome. Through biotechnology, we can now transfer genes among different types of cells. This and related tools are used to solve many problems in medicine and agriculture. You learned about the steps that can be used to produce a human protein (human growth hormone) in bacteria. The expression plasmid is transferred into bacteria. Antibiotic is added to the culture medium so that only those bacteria containing the plasmid can grow. The bacteria are cultured under conditions that favor rapid growth. The production of mRNA is initiated by the addition of lactose to the culture. Useful quantities of the final product - human growth hormone - can now be extracted from the medium. A similar process is used to produce proteins in yeast or mammalian cells for biomedical applications. A similar process is used to produce proteins in yeast or mammalian cells for biomedical applications. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Current technology limits this approach to about 200 bases. These sequences are called restriction sites. In this module, we investigated the function and organs that make up the Respiratory System, Cardiovascular System, Skeletal System, Muscular System, and the Nervous System. The bones contribute to our ability to stand upright and move around, but they can’t do it alone. Ligaments and cartilage are also parts of the skeletal system. Ligaments connect the bones to each other. Cartilage cushions the spaces between the bones, allowing for smooth movement. And the bones couldn’t move at all without the skeletal muscles, and tendons that connect muscles to bones (parts of the muscular system). The bones provide the muscles with something to pull against. If one component of an organ system is damaged or malfunctions, the function of the organ system will be affected. Think about a broken bone. If the femur breaks, it will be much harder to maintain an upright posture, or to walk or run. These might also be more difficult if the cartilage of the femur is destroyed by arthritis or a ligament in the knee is injured while playing a sport. If any component of the skeletal system is damaged—bone, ligament or cartilage—the knee will not function properly. You will learn how they contribute to homeostasis and how imbalances in homeostasis lead to various disease states. For a single-celled organism, this is accomplished through direct exchange with the environment. It gets more complicated with larger organisms where cells are not in direct contact with the “outside” environment. When humans breathe, air enters and exits via the respiratory system. Like the digestive system, the respiratory system can be thought of as a tube, or rather, as a branching series of tubes that get smaller and smaller as they branch off. Unlike the digestive system, which moves solids and liquids in a single direction, the respiratory system moves gases in both directions, when we inhale and exhale. When we inhale, air passes through the nose or mouth into the pharynx, larynx , trachea , lungs, and into smaller and smaller airways termed bronchi and then bronchioles, until it reaches the air sacs, or alveoli . The organs of the respiratory system are arranged in a roughly superior to inferior direction and include: Within the lungs, the respiratory system can be further divided into: Note that the pharynx (the part of the throat just behind the mouth) is listed as a part of both the digestive and respiratory systems. It is not uncommon for organs to be part of more than one organ system. The cardiovascular and lymphatic systems coordinate a diverse set of transport functions. The cardiovascular system consists of the blood, heart, and blood vessels. The respiratory and cardiovascular systems work together to take oxygen in from the external environment and deliver it, via blood, to cells. The red blood cells or erythrocytes are responsible for the transport of respiratory gasses. The lymphatic system consists of lymphatic vessels which are near blood vessels and several organs such as lymph nodes, the thymus gland, and spleen. It returns excess tissue fluid to the cardiovascular system while initiating immune responses to ensure that the delivered blood is not compromised, responding to foreign invasion in multiple ways. In addition to transporting the fluid, fluid/electrolyte balance must be maintained by integrated function of these organ systems: urinary, lymphatic and cardiovascular. This system also helps to maintain homeostasis of fluid volume, pH, and temperature. There are three types of formed elements: Blood cells are formed in the red bone marrow. The heart is divided into four chambers. The two lower chambers, called ventricles, force blood out into the arteries. The two upper chambers of the heart, called atria, receive blood returning from the veins. The heart contracts as a unit, both atria (named right and left) contract together to move blood into the ventricles and then both ventricles contract at the same time to move blood out of the heart into the pulmonary artery and the aorta. The cardiovascular system is divided into two functional subsystems. Arteries gradually branch into smaller and more numerous arterioles which then supply blood to the smallest vessels, termed capillaries. Capillaries allow the exchange of oxygen, nutrients and waste between the blood and tissue cells. After waste has been picked up, blood is moved through vessels of increasing size venules into the larger veins. Veins return oxygen-poor blood back to the heart, where the blood is passed to the pulmonary circuit to the lungs to pick up oxygen. The pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood from the lungs to the left side of the heart. Organ systems are required to coordinate these many efforts. The skeletal system, which includes the skeleton and articulations (joints), provides support and protection for soft tissues and organs, aids in movement, serves as a reservoir of calcium, and produces all blood cells. Bones are very strong, yet flexible which makes them perfect for supporting our weight and allowing movement. The connective tissues such as cartilage, ligaments, and tendons aid in protecting our joints and providing stability. The red bone marrow inside the bone is vital for hematopoiesis or the production of all blood cells. Bones are also a reservoir for calcium. If your diet is deficient in calcium, a hormone will mobilize calcium from the bones to the blood, and your bones will be weaker. Although we often think of bones as the only organs of the skeletal system, cartilage, ligaments and tendons are equally important organs. These structures of the skeletal system work together to: Bones allow us to maintain our stature, they protect softer internal organs, and they let us move around. Bones are interconnected by articulations, another word for joints. In an articulation, where bone meets bone, there is a layer of softer cartilage. Articulations are then stabilized by ligaments, which help keep the bones aligned properly. The major structures within the skeletal system are: The skeletal system consists of bones, ligaments, tendons, and cartilage. Bone is the primary organ of the skeletal system. These basic components give bone tissue its load-bearing, protective qualities. The living cells in bone allow it to sense and respond to stress. Cartilage is a firm, flexible, and smooth connective tissue found at the ends of bones. Cartilage is present in joints to protect the bone and to evenly distribute forces to the underlying bone. Ligaments are band-like elastic structures that surround joints to hold them together. Ligaments connect one bone to another bone, and allow movement in very specific directions. Tendons are band-like structures similar to ligaments. However, tendons are more rigid and connect bones to muscles. Tendons play a role in integrating the force generation of the muscle with the rigid bone, which helps actuate large-scale motion. The muscular (musculoskeletal) system generates force for movement of bones around articulations, facial expression, breathing, posture, and assists with temperature regulation.  Tendons are grouped in both the skeletal system and the muscular system since they connect the two systems (connect muscle to bone). Tendons play a role in transmitting force from the muscles to the bones to permit movement. Although only skeletal muscle is part of the muscular system, there are three types of muscle tissue. Most of these functions are involuntary and do not include the skeletal system. Smooth muscles lack striations thus, are termed smooth due to their appearance. Smooth muscles do not have any attachment to the skeletal system. Smooth muscle has the ability to produce its own contractions involuntarily. However, as with skeletal muscle, electrical signals from the nervous system can modulate the activities of smooth muscle. The organization of smooth muscle on a cellular level is irregular and unorganized. Therefore, smooth muscle does not contain sarcomeres. Cardiac muscle contains similarities to both skeletal and smooth muscle. Like skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle is composed of organized muscle fibers and sarcomeres, and is striated. However, cardiac muscle does not attach to the skeletal system and is under involuntary control, and is uninucleate. Cardiac muscle is not long and cylinder shaped like skeletal muscle but is more branched. The skeletal muscle converts signals from the nervous system into movement via muscle contractions. Muscles, like the biceps and triceps, are the organs of the skeletal muscular system. The main functions of skeletal muscles include: The muscular system contains muscle tissues and interconnects with both the nervous system and skeletal system. Nerves control the muscles and allow us to consciously direct movements. Some muscles, such as the muscles that control the pupil of your eye, cannot be controlled consciously but react to nerve stimuli. The skeletal system provides a stiff support for muscles to pull on. Muscles generate force to lift as well as to balance us. Parallel muscles form along the long bones, pennate and convergent muscle fibers attach to tendons and circular muscles assist with closing our eyes or puckering our lips. The major structures within the muscular system are: Skeletal muscles are voluntary muscles that attach to, and contract to move the bones. Skeletal muscles often work in pairs. When one muscle is contracting, the other is relaxing. To straighten your arm, the biceps relaxes, and the triceps contracts. The diaphragm is skeletal muscle that contracts and relaxes for inhalation and exhalation. Hiccups are a spasm in your diaphragm muscle. Therefore we say that skeletal muscle is multi-nucleate. The functional unit within a skeletal muscle fiber, called a sarcomere (note that “sarc” means flesh), contains filaments of the proteins actin and myosin. Myosin is a thicker protein (appears darker) than actin and the two proteins create a pattern so the muscle appears striped or striated. Notice the appearance of skeletal muscle in this transmission electron microscope view. A muscle contraction occurs when the myosin filaments pull on the actin to shorten the sarcomere. This results in shortening of the muscle fiber and ultimately the entire muscle shortens or contracts to pull on the bone. An electrical signal from the nervous system is necessary to cause a skeletal muscle contraction. The area where the nerve meets the muscle to stimulate it is termed neuromuscular junction. When a nerve signal reaches the neuromuscular junction, the muscle fiber is stimulated and the muscle contracts. In the image below the #1 is termed the axon or the part of a neuron that carries the instructions from the brain and spinal cord. #2 is the end of the axon called the axon terminal or synaptic vesicle. #3 is the muscle and #4 is a group or bundle of muscle fibers. The systems integrate with each other, so that control systems within the nervous system regulate many activities of the endocrine system and hormones of the endocrine system can affect some of the functions of the nervous system. The chemical messengers produced by each individual system are responsible for many homeostatic functions, through feedback mechanisms. The basic functional units of the nervous system that transmit messages are cells called neurons. Signals travel through a neuron as electrical impulses. Neurons release chemical substances, known as neurotransmitters, to transmit information to other neurons, to muscles, or to glands. The chemical messages of the nervous system are transmitted over short distances, and their effects are short-lived. The nervous system allows for control and coordination of skeletal muscular movements that may be consciously predetermined, or may happen automatically, such as reflexes. Some activities, such as breathing, can be controlled both subconsciously and consciously. The nervous system typically works quickly. It also allows us to integrate and store information, such as when you are learning. The autonomic nervous system is further divided into the sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions. Electrochemical signals are processed in the brain and sent down the spinal cord, which runs the length of the back. From the spinal cord, peripheral nerves send signals out to the extremities. Return signals come in through sensory nerves and either return to the spinal cord for processing or back to the brain. The spinal cord processes reflexes and repeated patterns. The nervous system is often divided into two functional parts: The major structures within the central nervous system are: The spinal cord is located within the vertebral column and processes some reflexes but primarily transmits information to and from the brain along neurons. Specialized membranes called meninges cover the brain and the spinal cord to protect them. Additionally, a special fluid, called cerebrospinal fluid, chemically and mechanically protects the brain and spinal cord. The major structures within the peripheral nervous system are: The peripheral nervous system is composed of nerves outside the brain and spinal cord. These nerves are categorized into the following functional groups: The peripheral nervous system can be subdivided into two subdivisions: the somatic and autonomic divisions. The somatic nervous system includes sensory neurons that send sensory information from sensory receptors of the skeletal muscle, skin and special senses (including smell, taste, sight, hearing and equilibrium) to the central nervous system and motor neurons that control skeletal muscle. These changes are not under voluntary control. One level of defense is provided by the integumentary system, made up of the skin, hair, and nails. Certain parts of the skeletal system, such as the skull and ribcage, also help to protect the internal organs, such as the brain, heart and lungs, from damage. To keep itself in a state of equilibrium, an organism must constantly gather information and react accordingly. Within any organism, there are a multitude of functions taking place at any given time. So you now know that all multicellular organisms need to do the following in order to survive: So what does this mean? What does this involve? Try answering the questions below to begin broadly thinking about bodily function within these categories and how they are linked to one or more of the primary organ systems. An organism constantly interacts with its environment. Two organ systems are primarily responsible for exchange of material with the environment. Waste products are excreted from these single cells in a similar fashion. In multi-celled organisms like humans, however, most cells are not exposed directly to the outside environment. In the Molecular Genetics unit, you learned about the molecular basis of traits that characterize the organisms and how genetic information is organized and used by living organisms at the molecular level. You will recall that organs and organ systems are important levels in the hierarchy of biological organization. In multicellular organisms, cells combine to form tissues, like muscle tissue or nervous tissue. You will also have opportunities to learn more about these systems in the laboratory portion of the course.  The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Natural selection arising through preference by one sex for certain characteristics in individuals of the other sex. A group of organisms whose members can and will breed with each other to produce fertile offspring. Deliberate mating between two individuals who were selected based on desired traits. A process by which nature (i.e.  We have come to the end of this Unit, but evolution continues and our understanding of this process continues to grow. In these data we find what Sean Carroll, a biologist at the University of Wisconsin, has called the “ultimate forensic record of evolution.” To learn more... National Academy of Sciences and Institute of Medicine. 2008. Science, Evolution, and Creationism. Washington, D.C.: The National Academies Press.. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. We began by placing evolution in context as a discipline within biology. To qualify as biological evolution, a change should occur in: New traits or characteristics are born by mutation, in a process that is random and unplanned. However, various forms of selection sift through those traits so that certain genetic types tend to flourish: Sexually selected traits are also very common. Rather than being the toughest, meanest, or even the strongest, the organisms with the highest evolutionary fitness are simply those that reproduce the most over a lifetime. There are many ways to be fit and adaptive traits may shift with changing environments. In addition to the forms of selection, microevolution also takes place through processes that do not necessarily lead to adaptation. Macroevolution is the longer-term outcome of microevolution. It can occur through isolation in space (allopatric) or through behavioral or genetic mechanisms within a continuous habitat (sympatric). After splitting, lineages evolve independently of each other. Members of a clade share homologous features: inherited characteristics that can be traced to an ancestor that they share. Evolutionary biology provides a huge range of practical benefits. An understanding of microevolution has allowed us to develop effective therapies to combat HIV and to make great progress against malaria. We are most effective when we recognize that any infectious disease is an evolutionary dance involving adaptations among pathogens, vectors (like the mosquito), and hosts - including humans. On another level, “tree thinking” helps us navigate biodiversity with greater intelligence. In this unit, we have only scratched the surface of evolutionary theory. Evolution is a slow and often very complex process. But there are no living human eyewitnesses to past macroevolution. Therefore scientists will continue to engage in lively debate about the details of exactly how evolution occurred. In particular, the issues surrounding speciation are quite complex and there are many competing ideas about the best way to recognize and define biological lineages. However, scientists are nearly unanimous in their acceptance of the broad ideas of evolution as they have been presented in this course. Evidence for common ancestry, an ancient Earth, and ongoing adaptation by natural selection is overwhelming and is accumulating daily. Improved public acceptance or at least understanding of evolution is a goal shared by biologists and educators. You may feel at times that scientists are trying to talk you out of your religious or cultural traditions. However, you should know that scientists are people and have varied perspectives on religious and philosophical matters. Most scientists recognize that not every question can be answered by evolutionary thinking. Many find value in religious traditions or other sources of meaning even as they embrace the logic and beauty of evolution. Thus far you have learned a great deal about how cells function. In the genetics units you’ve learned how biological information is inherited and used. Evolution builds on what you already know. First, it goes beyond the brief lifetimes of individual organisms. Evolution also adds another layer of explanation to biological thinking. So far we have focused mainly on “how” questions. How is information passed from parents to offspring, and how is that information used to construct living cells? Evolution helps us answer “why” questions: Why do cells of very different organisms have so much in common? Why are cave fish blind? As a scientific theory, evolution is more than a mere opinion or guess. In science, a “theory” is a broad explanation that is supported by a great deal of evidence and continues to inspire productive research. Scientists accept and use evolutionary theory because it is so strongly supported by evidence from many different sources. It fits our observations of the diversity and variability of physical traits in animals in different settings. Since the theory of evolution was first put forth in the 1850s and since some of the supporting evidence is based in ancient fossils, you might get the impression that evolution occurred in the past and is complete. That is not correct. In fact, evolution continues all around us today and evolutionary ideas are being applied to solve a huge range of problems of both academic and practical interest! Below are a few examples. You will learn about some of them in this unit. Evolutionary theory and models are used to: Evolution is that and much more. In the first module, we will introduce and define the biological theory of evolution. In the second module we will focus on relatively fast and subtle changes that occur within populations (microevolution). As you learn, try to maintain an open mind and evaluate the evidence on its own merits. You will gain a better understanding of a scientific theory that is very influential in our society. In our society, the word “evolution” is used very broadly to mean any kind of change (usually for the better). Political views, hairstyles, and technologies all are said to “evolve.” In science, the phrase “biological evolution” has a more precise meaning. Biological evolution is a change in inherited (genetic) features that occurs in populations and higher-level groups over time. These types exist because of past mutations. Selection occurs: some of the genetic types reproduce more than others in a given environment. On the white background, “bleached” lizards probably survived much better than did those who inherited a darker color pattern. Experiments have confirmed that small animals that match their backgrounds are much less likely to be attacked by visual predators. A matching color pattern is an adaptive trait: it results in improved average reproductive success in the appropriate environment. Adaptive traits become common as a result of past and ongoing natural selection. In the core of the White Sands area, the vast majority of lizards show the “bleached” color pattern. We sometimes refer to organisms’ adaptive traits as “adaptations.” We also use the word “adaptation” as a verb, to describe the process of evolution that occurs over many generations of natural selection. But we can also see evidence of ongoing evolution. In some areas there is noticeable variation; both color forms are present. No doubt there is ongoing selection as predators continue to hunt lizards, generation after generation. Although the lizards move around and breed with each other, natural selection maintains dark color types in dark habitats and “bleached” color forms in the White Sands. To learn more: Rosenblum, EB and others. 2009. Molecular and functional basis of phenotypic convergence in white lizards at White Sands. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 107: 2113-2117 Evolution can be divided into two levels: microevolution and macroevolution. Natural selection is the main process of microevolution; it shapes populations such that they become better-adapted to local conditions over time. Macroevolution involves bigger changes that occur more slowly and cannot be directly observed in most cases. To recap, below are the major components of the modern theory of biological evolution: But this has no effect on future generations of lizards. How does this inherited trait change over many generations? They may be astonishingly cryptic (camouflaged) in their natural backgrounds. They may tolerate extremes of cold, heat, salinity, or other factors unique to their habitat. Adaptive traits are any inherited characteristics - physical, chemical, or behavioral - that enable an organism’s successful reproduction in a given environment. “Bleached” form of lesser earless lizard (Holbrookia maculata) from White Sands National Monument, a region of white-sand dunes in New Mexico. Lesser earless lizard (Holbrookia maculata) from a typical habitat containing rocks and woody plants in the western United States. The broken outline and blotchy coloration of this lizard help it blend in with its local habitat and avoid detection by visual predators. Why do adaptive traits exist? Natural selection is a process that produces and maintains adaptive traits within populations. It occurs under the following circumstances and through the following process: Every society has addressed these questions based on the information that was available at that time and place. Some of their ideas were based on direct observations, but many of them involved supernatural beings or spiritual forces. Scientific study is much more narrowly focused on close examination of processes and objects in the natural world. In order for an explanation to be considered scientific, it must be based on verifiable observations. It must be possible to test it through observations or experiments. Ideas or explanations that do not meet these criteria are not necessarily “bad” or “wrong,” but they are unscientific. Scientific and non-scientific views are separate but potentially complementary ways of knowing. Scientific methods can be used to answer direct, factual questions about “what is” and “what probably was” through a clear procedure of observation and testing. Through an ongoing process scientists select ideas that best fit the available data. However, answers derived from science are limited. They do not necessarily help with ultimate questions of meaning (why the Universe exists in the first place, what humans should be or do). Non-scientific ways of looking at the world (religion, philosophy) are more directly focused on these questions. However, they do not publish these ideas in scientific journals or used them to explain their detailed observations of the natural world. Like the community of science itself, we will restrict our scope to fairly narrow questions of how and when things probably happened, based on what we can observe today. Other explanations are better suited to philosophy or religion courses; they help us explore broader questions about why the Universe exists and what our place is within it.  Before defining the modern theory of evolution, we will consider its historic roots. You probably know that the scholar most widely recognized as the author of the theory of evolution was Charles Darwin. What clues led scientists to propose and embrace evolution? To gain some insights into these questions, explore the Learn By Doing activity below. It is important to recognize the distinction between scientific and traditional views. From the information given, determine whether the view is scientific or traditional. The views are listed in chronological order with approximate dates so that you can also see the progression of these ideas over time. After Darwin, science has continued to reinforce, refine, and modify the theory of evolution. Two major developments were particularly important. In the early 1900s, scientists rediscovered Mendel’s genetic principles and applied them to evolution. Field biologists observed such changes in fruit flies and other short-lived organisms. Lab experiments also demonstrated the effects of natural selection. With a focus on genetics, these advances reinforced the idea of natural selection. This laid the groundwork for an explosion of information that continues today. Inherited information now can be analyzed directly and in detail. To Learn More: A comprehensive database of Darwin-related publications, images, commentary and more are available free online at http://darwin-online.org.uk/. A more detailed history of evolutionary thought is available from the University of California Museum of Paleontology at http://evolution.berkeley.edu/evolibrary/article/0_0_0/history_01. We can track evolutionary changes in populations of these organisms. They may change in ways that are important to us. Pests and weeds may also evolve in ways that make them more harmful or harder to control. Scientists and doctors can use what we know about microevolution and the mechanisms that drive evolution to help tackle these problems in the “real world” not just in the realm of academia. We have now explored two corners of the “Interactions in Malaria” triangle - the mosquito vector and the malaria parasite. As you can see from the question above, there are several ways in which malarial parasites can evolve resistance to anti-malarial medications. This is a real world problem in the fight against malaria. Resistance to almost every drug available to prevent or treat malaria has been reported, and the rates of resistance are only increasing. Insecticide resistant mosquitoes are also contributing to the problem because many areas where malaria is rampant rely heavily on pesticide control of the mosquito populations to curtail the spread of malaria. If the mosquitoes are no longer killed by the pesticide, then there will be more mosquitoes around to transmit malaria. The last corner of our triangle is the human host. The alleles of many human genes have been determined to alter a person’s susceptibility to malarial infections. Their red blood cells are misshapen, resembling a sickle. Three genotypes are possible: Good work. You’ve cracked the mystery! There is a situation called heterozygote advantage at work here. The red blood cells of those with the Aa genotype are less hospitable to Plasmodium than those of an average (AA) individual. Malaria is a serious disease with an estimated 216 million cases and over 600,000 deaths in 2010. In Sub-Saharan Africa, where malaria rates are highest, a child under the age of five dies every minute from this disease. Doctors and scientists are working to help prevent and treat this disease by designing new treatments, developing vaccines, working to prevent mosquitoes from transmitting the malaria parasites, and by studying the interrelatedness between the parasite, the insect host and the human host. At the center of the connection between parasite, insect, and human lies evolution. HIV and malaria are just two examples where an understanding of evolutionary principles has proven to be a critical component in the effort to fight infectious disease. Other prominent examples include tuberculosis, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), avian influenza, and pertussis. In AIDS, HIV disables the human immune system by depleting CD4 T-cells. The HIV virus prefers to infect these cells. Some of these are reverse transcriptase, integrase, and protease. Each one is essential to the virus: AIDS was first recognized and tied to the HIV virus in the early 1980s. At that time a diagnosis of HIV infection was considered a death sentence as there were no available treatments. The first breakthrough in HIV treatment came about in 1986 when zidovudine (also known as AZT) was introduced in the United States. AZT works by blocking the activity of the HIV reverse transcriptase enzyme. AZT was hailed as a HUGE medical breakthrough, and it worked well at keeping the viral infection in check. AZT would remain the only treatment available for HIV until the early 1990s when other reverse transcriptase inhibitor drugs as well as drugs that inhibited the HIV protease were introduced. With AZT and the new drugs available the scientific and medical communities thought that the struggles of managing this disease were over! Having HIV was no longer a death sentence! Infected patients could simply be given any one of these drugs, and live fairly normal lives as long as they continued treatment. However, by the mid 1990s, it became apparent that there was a problem. Patients whose infections had been well controlled (even for many years) started once again to exhibit symptoms of AIDS and their health deteriorated rapidly. While this turn of events may seem perplexing, the explanation has everything to do with microevolution. Apply what you know about evolution, recognizing that the HIV virus can complete a replication cycle in 1-2 days. Second, note that the effectiveness of a drug often depends on how well it binds to a protein of a particular shape. Drugs used against HIV will be effective only if they match up with and bind to specific sites on the enzymes HIV uses to replicate. By the late 1990s, doctors and scientists came to the conclusion that in order to continue to treat HIV effectively, they needed to approach the problem from multiple fronts - as you just discovered in the above Learn By Doing activity. New drugs were developed that targeted different parts of the virus, current drugs were administered together, and when it became clear that a drug was no longer working for a patient, the patient was given a different one. The end result of all of this work was the development of what is known today as Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy or HAART. HAART generally consists of one protease inhibitor given in concert with one or two other anti-HIV drugs that target different aspects of the virus. To date, there are over 30 drugs approved for use in the treatment of HIV. While doctors and scientists have made great strides in combating HIV, the “war” on this virus is far from over. In 2010, there were approximately 34 million people infected with HIV worldwide and 1.8 million deaths associated with HIV. Rates of HIV infection and the death toll from AIDS are disproportionately high in Sub-Saharan Africa and in other areas without access to HAART. Even in wealthier nations, the problem of drug resistance continues. As of 2009 researchers were tracking 93 different common drug-resistance mutations worldwide. Today the World Health Organization (WHO) and other groups are working to raise HIV awareness, reduce infection rates, and increase access to drugs among those already infected. Researchers are also working to develop new drugs and vaccines. Now that we have learned how our understanding of evolution can be used to help fight HIV, let’s see if we can apply that knowledge to an even more complicated infectious disease: malaria. Malaria is an ancient disease that has been around for over 50,000 years! Malaria is caused by four parasites of the Plasmodium genus: Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium vivax, Plasmodium ovale, and Plasmodium malariae. Humans become infected with the malarial parasites when they are bitten by an infected mosquito. Similarly, uninfected mosquitoes can pick up the parasites when they ingest blood from an infected human. However, this complexity also means that there are more potential ways to intervene, prevent, and treat this disease. The parasite could be targeted with anti-malarial drugs in the human host. Other methods could be used to prevent the parasite from surviving in the mosquito host. Or measures can be taken to prevent the human host from being bitten by mosquitoes. Genetic drift can also occur through the founder effect. Imagine a field of dandelions. Dandelions are self-fertile, so they do not require cross pollination from other dandelions to produce offspring. While these mechanisms of evolution have been presented separately from the mechanisms of natural, artificial, and sexual selection, in reality it is likely that several or all of these mechanisms are at work at any given time to drive evolution. Evolution is a complicated process. We often think of mutations as a “bad” thing, in part because of how they are portrayed in TV shows and movies. Mutant creatures are often bizarre (three eyed fish in Lake Springfield of The Simpsons) or dangerous (mutant dinosaurs of Jurassic Park). Even when the mutations create superheros like the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles or Spider Man, the mutation is never really portrayed as a good thing. While a certain amount of that bad reputation is deserved, as some mutations do indeed have negative consequences for living organisms, not all mutations are "bad." All of the following are true statements about mutations: When parents produce sperm or eggs, errors (mutations) can occur so that the gametes carry new versions (alleles) of existing genes. Fertilization, growth, and development can result in an adult individual that carries a new allele and is able to pass it on to offspring. This enzyme is found in saliva and begins the process of digesting starches in your mouth. You produce a form of the enzyme that very efficiently digests starch. That depends on what happens next. The center of the flowers (where the pollen is located) is either white or orange. What happens if a random mutation occurs that results in a black colored flower center that is even more attractive to pollinators? Remember that when living organisms move from one place to another, they take their alleles with them! Consider the average height difference between people in East Asia (e.g. China) and those in Western nations (Europe and the Americas). Conversely, alleles characteristic of Asian populations move along with immigrants to the United States. It is similar to selection in some ways. In genetic drift, certain genetic types become more frequent through dumb luck. The first is known as the bottleneck effect. An analogy may help. Half the cards in a deck are red (hearts and diamonds) and the other half are black (spades and clubs). But if you draw six cards from the deck at random, will you always get 3 red and 3 black cards? No. You might well draw six black or six red cards. Similarly, consider a grove of 1000 oak trees. Compared to the original group, the 100 lucky survivors will have higher percentages of some genetic types, a lower percentage of others, and some alleles might be entirely missing. Before we begin our exploration of microevolution, let’s review a few principles that we have already covered in this course. Most genes have multiple forms, called alleles,, discussed previously in the Heredity module of the Classical Genetics unit. The word evolution means change, and things that change are said to "evolve." These terms are commonly used in our everyday lives (a work project evolves from the original idea to a finished product, people dealing with a tragedy evolve as they learn to cope), but in these settings they have a very different meaning than in biology. In biology, the words evolution and evolve are used in a precise way. Evolution occurs in populations, not in individual organisms. But what does that actually mean? We’ll observe two different populations of foxes, one in Maryland and one in Wisconsin. And we will visit the populations at two different times. Assume that the dominant allele F produces a thick coat, while the recessive allele f produces a thin coat. Therefore, an FF fox has a heavy coat while an ff fox has a thin coat. Both populations saw an increase in the total number of foxes from 1962 to 2202. Antibiotic resistance has become a major problem for the medical community worldwide.  Amoxicillin, tetracycline, metronidazole, and clarithromycin are the four most commonly used antibiotics to treat Helicobacter pylori infections. The bacteria have been developing increased resistance to some of these drugs over the past 20 years. The graph shows the percent resistance to these antibiotics over a twenty year span for a hypothetical country. When you studied inheritance, you often were thinking about crosses: two individuals mating to produce offspring. As we study microevolution, we will be backing up to think about how inheritance works within larger groups. Some examples of a population might be all the people that live in your state, all of the frogs that live near a pond, all of the grizzly bears that live in Denali National Park, or all the dandelions that live in your hometown. Scientists define the area based upon the problem they are studying. The dandelions in Boston, Massachusetts and those in Annapolis, Maryland belong to separate populations. They are not likely to breed with one another because their pollen doesn't travel that far. They could breed with one another if conditions allowed. Let's assume that there are 125 pea plants in your garden. Seed color in peas is determined by a pair of alleles: a dominant allele determining yellow seed color (which we will designate as Y) and a recessive allele determining green seed color (which we will designate as y). Some of these traits are visible, such as plant height and flower color. Other genes may determine how resistant the plants are to diseases and pests, how they respond to drought or freezing, and many more features that are important to peas - and to gardeners. What is microevolution? Now that we have a better understanding of what microevolution is, we must consider in more detail how microevolution happens. In this page we will learn about selection, a central process in evolution. We will discuss three types of selection: natural, sexual, and artificial. The genetic types that reproduce more than others are more likely to pass on their alleles to the next generation. Traits that give an organism a reproductive advantage in a particular environment are called adaptive traits. For a white-footed mouse in a forest, a long tail could be adaptive because it allows a mouse to escape from predators by climbing trees. It could also be adaptive because it allows a mouse to obtain more food. The foxes did not all individually lose their coats as the weather got warmer. Instead, the environmental conditions changed the likelihood that a particular set of alleles would be passed from individuals in one generation to their descendants. The environment increased the odds that the f allele would be passed on to the next generation, and decreased the odds that the F allele would be passed on. Evolution takes longer than a lifetime. Second, the warmer climate did not cause a mutation to occur so that thinner coats could exist. Instead, selection is limited to filtering existing variation. Sexual selection is a subtype of natural selection. In sexual selection, some types reproduce more than others because they have traits that allow them to: Can you think of some traits in animals or plants that would increase their likelihood of mating? Here are some examples. Female peafowl are more likely to mate with males that have fuller, more colorful, and more grandiose tail plumage. During mating season, males display their plumage when females are in the area in the hopes of attracting the females for mating. The males with the better tail feathers are more likely to successfully mate and pass on their genes. These are just two examples of many thousands of traits that are driven by natural selection in nature. Some additional examples of sexually selected traits include: The typical pattern in sexual selection is that males compete with each other for mates; sometimes they do so through displays that are meant to attract females, while in other cases they may battle each other directly. Females tend to choose mates carefully. Working independently of one another in the 1850s, Charles Darwin and Alfred Wallace were the first scientists to posit the theory of evolution by natural selection. Ideas about evolution had been proposed before, but Darwin and Wallace added a crucial element to the theory: they provided a mechanism for how evolution could work. The perplexing thing about sexual selection is that the showy traits that are used to attract a mate can also interfere with survival. For instance, the elaborate plumage of the peacock can make the males more likely targets for predators. Elk with larger antlers may get them stuck in fences or brambles, which can lead to the untimely death of the stuck elk. And fighting is never good for survival. So why do these dangerous traits exist? First, survival is only a means to an end: individuals that fail to mate have zero fitness, even if they are very good survivors. Second, many sexually selected traits (e.g. elaborate plumage, bright colors, large antlers) are known to be indicative of a healthier mate. Males who can “carry off” a good display and a successful battle are also fit in other ways. Females who are choosy are doubly successful in their own reproduction: they produce “sexy sons” who will themselves be successful in mating, and they also produce offspring that are generally healthy. Sexual selection is a powerful force in evolution. To understand the impact of sexual selection consider what happens to the genes of the individual who does not mate. In the figure above, Mark’s genes have been passed down to a second generation because his children have mated and have children of their own. Mark is successful evolutionarily speaking and his alleles have become more common through his reproduction and that of his offspring. The evolutionary success of Matt’s genes is zero because he has no offspring. Sexual selection is a powerful driving force within evolution. In natural selection, the types that succeed are those that survive and/or grow the best. In sexual selection, mating success is key. In artificial selection, humans decide which types reproduce best: we deliberately breed certain individuals with desired traits. Artificial selection is sometimes referred to as selective breeding. It has been in use for thousands of years as humans have domesticated plants and animals to suit their needs. As we discussed at the beginning of this module, corn as we know it today (with large, full ears) has been selectively bred by humans from its wild grass ancestor (with small, sparse ears). In the same way, dairy cows have been selectively bred to produce more milk; beef cattle have been bred to have more muscle; horses have been bred to run faster; tomatoes have been bred to produce larger fruit; and wild mustard has been bred to produce cabbage, Brussels sprouts, kale, broccoli, cauliflower, and kohlrabi. Dogs are descended from gray wolves, but after thousands of years of humans directing the breeding of dogs, we have well over one hundred different breeds. There are dogs with good noses that can track game and search for missing persons. Some dogs have been bred to herd or protect domestic animals. Some dog breeds are known for happy personalities and soft fur that make them great companions while others are known for their strength and intelligence which makes them good guard or police dogs. Consider the image below to get a sense of the power of artificial selection. Selective breeding is not as simple as it may appear. Let’s say you take a dairy cow who is a high milk producer. You mate her with a male who has the red spotted coat you like. Unfortunately, you are not guaranteed to get a female calf who is a high milk producer and has red spots. You are not just dealing with the two traits you desire in a dairy cow (high milk yield and red spots), but every trait (i.e. every allele) that each parent cow has. When you breed these two animals, the offspring will have some combination of all of the parents’ traits. Because of this, it often takes many generations of artificial selection to consistently produce offspring with the desired traits. In the process of selecting for desired traits, undesirable traits often “tag along”, and thus we see an increased likelihood of genetic disorders in many domestic animals. This is a result of inbreeding (mating of individuals that are closely related). Additionally, sometimes selective breeding can magnify a desired trait to such an extreme that it interferes with survival or reproduction. American domestic turkeys have been bred to have larger breast muscles to satisfy consumers’ preference for white meat. As a result of generations of selective breeding, today’s male turkeys are literally too large-chested to mount and copulate with female turkeys. To produce more turkeys, farmers must artificially inseminate females. In this and other examples, selective breeding can produce plant and animal varieties that are totally dependent on our care and intervention, exhibiting traits that would never be adaptive in the wild. Artificial selection is a powerful tool that drives the evolution of domesticated plants and animals, but it is one that must be utilized with great thought and consideration so as to avoid the problems that come with inbreeding. Does it surprise you that farmers and animal breeders need to understand a good deal about biology to be successful in their professions? Natural selection is a process by which nature (i.e. Individuals vary in their inherited traits. Those with inherited phenotypes that are better suited to the environment will have a greater likelihood of passing on their genes to subsequent generations. To put it another way, the driving force behind evolution is the interaction of genes and the environment. Sometimes people use the phrase “survival of the fittest” to sum up natural selection. This catchphrase may be helpful, but we encourage you to think carefully. “Survival” is important, but only because it enables reproduction: once they reach reproductive age, some animals and plants literally kill themselves to reproduce. Second, what do we mean by “fittest”? We don’t mean physical fitness. Evolutionary fitness is based on genes and inheritance and is measured by lifetime reproductive success. The genes of an organism determine many of its features, and these features help determine how likely an organism is to reproduce in its particular environment. Instead, we say that on average the individuals with some phenotypes will reproduce better than others in a given environment. These fitter individuals will be more likely to pass on their alleles (through reproduction) to the next generation. The length of the tail on the white-footed mouse is related to the habitat in which the mice live. Longer tails provide a support and counterbalance for climbing (as seen in monkeys). In populations of mice that live in forests the average length of the tail is longer; in populations that live in meadows, the average tail length is shorter. While a long tail may be useful when the mice are climbing trees, a long tail on the ground may make it easier for predators to catch the mice. Tail length is heritable in the mice; on average, offspring have tails that are similar in length to those of their parents. Note also that mice have short gestation times (23-28 days) and mouse pups are weaned in about 28 days, so the generation time for mice is very short. Female mice can have approximately 6 litters a year. General Hint: In natural selection, the traits that are best suited to a given environment have a greater chance of being passed on to future generations and should increase in frequency. Microevolution is the process by which populations of organisms evolve. Some of its processes are predictable, but the overall course of evolution cannot be known in advance. Several mechanisms can lead to evolution. The first and most well known is natural selection. Sexual selection occurs when individuals with certain traits are more likely to obtain mates than other individuals. Sexual selection often leads to the development of extravagant traits in males like the tail feather of peacocks or the elaborate mating flights of hummingbirds. Sexual selection can also entail fighting among males for access to females. This is a powerful force in nature. Humans select individuals who have desired traits for breeding in an effort to enhance and purify those traits within offspring. This technique has been employed for thousands of years and has led to the domestication of crop plants, livestock, ornamental plants, and pets. The great number of varieties you see in these plants and animals is the result of artificial selection. Mutations can be useful, detrimental, or neutral (have no impact on fitness). If the environment changes, a particular mutation’s effect on fitness can also change. While all of these mechanisms of microevolution have been discussed as separate entities, it is important to remember that all of these mechanisms are working in concert. As you have seen, understanding the mechanisms of evolution can not only help us to grow better produce or breed better dogs, but it also helps us develop strategies to combat infectious diseases that take their toll on human lives. Evolution is one of the driving forces in the world today and is one of science’s most important Theories. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Why does macroevolution matter? Is it just ancient history? Far from it! “Tree thinking” is basic to progress in modern biology. Instead, we can use natural groupings (clades) to our advantage. Partridge, L. and others. 2011. The new science of ageing. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London Biological Sciences 366: 6-8. National Science Foundation / American Museum of Natural History. 2000. A phylogenetic perspective can help us deal with threats. When there is an outbreak of food poisoning, genetic analysis can show that the harmful bacteria came from a particular farm. If we are attacked by a new virus, we can compare its genes to those of known pathogens. Once we place the virus within a clade, we can quickly get a handle on what we’re facing, how it is likely to affect us, and how we can best combat it. You may be surprised to learn that the familiar daffodil is a plant with medicinal potential. Although daffodils are poisonous, drugs might be developed from chemicals that can be extracted from the plant.  Narcissus confusus (inset) in its habitat in Spain. Daffodils are poisonous but drugs might be developed from chemicals extracted or modified from those found in the plant. Photos by A. Barra, CC BY 3.0. Based on these discoveries, scientists are interested in learning more about the chemistry and therapeutic potential of daffodils. But where to look? Instead, researchers are using “tree thinking” to narrow down the search. A second principle of macroevolution, common ancestry, is important for another reason. Medical research focuses on the biology of humans. But let’s face it: humans make terrible study subjects. We live too long, take up too much space, and have too many inalienable rights to be of much use in the lab! They can tell us a great deal about our bodies, our genes, and even our diseases. Why? When we learn something about a worm or a wallaby, we learn more about ourselves in the process. Below we summarize just a few examples of the power of this approach. References / To Learn More: Willcox, B.J. and others. 2008. FOXO3A genotype is strongly associated with human longevity. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 105: 13987-13992. Spencer, G. 2002. Background on mouse as a model organism. National Human Genome Research Institute website. You have probably noticed certain features that “run in families:” dark curly hair, an oddly shaped ear, bushy eyebrows, freckles... Siblings are often similar in appearance because they have inherited their genes from a common source. We may look very different, but unifying features are evident within our cells. And to make use of their genes, all cells have ribosomes: clusters of protein and RNA that carry out the synthesis of proteins. That is just what Carl Woese, a microbiologist at the University of Illinois, set out to do in the 1970s. This was painstaking work, done without the aid of modern computers and software. In 1990 Woese published a paper proposing a change in the classification system. Two of them are made up of prokaryotes (Bacteria and Archaea). The third is called Eukarya and includes all organisms whose cells have nuclei, including fungi, animals, plants, and several groups of protists. Why do scientists think that the chemical similarities of cells reflect shared ancestry? Thus we can now analyze inherited characteristics that have been present for not just millions but billions of years. Homologous features are the key sources of information for the construction of phylogenetic trees. A phylogenetic tree, or phylogeny, is a diagram that shows how a biological lineage may have branched and formed clades over time. To get a feel for how phylogenetic trees work and what they mean, do the following activity.  The amnion is a membrane that surrounds the developing embryo in some animals. Mammary glands are specialized skin glands that produce milk for developing offspring. The rest of the characteristics are self-explanatory. All of them are inherited characteristics. Many traits may be lost or reversed over time. Consider the examples of tetrapods with one or both pairs of limbs reduced or missing (snakes, some lizards, whales and dolphins, manatees, seals, etc.). Some changes also occur quite predictably as adaptations to special environments. In the Arctic, foxes, birds, mink, hares, bears, and more all have snow-white winter coats or feathers. They are not closely related and did not all inherit their winter coloration from a common ancestor. Instead, “snow white winter color” developed independently in each of these lineages at different times and starting with different mutations. The image below gives a glimpse of the data. Do the differences between the genes match our expectations about how Carp, Salamander, Sea Turtle, Human, and Mouse are related? It is not easy for a human to sort through the sequences and count differences one by one, but a computer can complete this task in a flash. In evolutionary biology, the same principle is extended to related lineages. Their lineages split apart not too long ago. They can be traced to a common ancestor, but this ancestor lived very long ago. We can tell their degree of relationship by looking at homologous features: shared features that were inherited from the same source and reflect common ancestry. At least from the Carp’s perspective, the genetic data agree with our tree: the Tiger Salamander is Carp’s closest match; Sea Turtle is in between; and Mouse and Human are more distant! To Learn More We are looking for features that were inherited from a common source. Homologous features will also be similar in their details; there should be more than a passing resemblance. An analogy might help you to recognize what we’re getting at here. Two students are brought into a professor’s office. They are shown their term papers, side by side. At several points, the papers have identical or extremely similar wording. The students are charged with plagiarism. Both claim to have written their own papers. After all, the professor asked for a paper on phylogenetic biology, so of course the papers will be similar! The professor counters this with a quick calculation: the odds that two students’ papers would have such similar language by chance are one in several trillion. The academic integrity board agrees: either one student copied from the other, or they both copied language from the same outside source. When inherited features are very similar in their details, biologists assume they were likely inherited from a common source. It seems unlikely that these four animals (not to mention thousands of others) would develop such similar limb structures by chance. It also does not appear to be necessary. Why should a whale flipper have embedded fingers, wrist bones, and three major limb bones? If adaptive evolution was starting “from scratch,” it might “design” a flipper with just a few bony plates. Instead, evidence supports the idea that all four-limbed vertebrates descend from a common ancestor; they all inherit their curious and specific arrangement of limb bones from that source. In separate lineages, adaptation has reshaped the limbs and suited them to very different functions. At first glance, a whale flipper and a hummingbird wing have little in common, but the details of the structures point to shared ancestry. Let’s take a moment to assess your understanding of homologous features. It is not just four-limbed animals that are related. You, a bacterium, a fly, a fern, and a Portabello mushroom all belong to a single clade. To some, this is a difficult or even preposterous concept. What could you and a bacterium or mushroom possibly have in common? And if you do have something in common, why do biologists think it was inherited from the same source? Hoeck, P.E.A. and others. 2010. Differentiation with drift: a spatio-temporal genetic analysis of Galápagos mockingbird populations (Mimus spp.) Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London B Biological Sciences 365: 1127–1138. doi:10.1098/rstb.2009.0311 Recall that changes that occur in the genetic makeup of one lineage do not directly influence the genetics of another lineage as we move forward through time. Therefore speciation is the establishment of a new group that does not exchange individuals or genes with its source lineage. What could break up a biological lineage? This is called allopatric speciation. This is called sympatric speciation (translates to “same-country”). Allopatric speciation begins when populations are separated in space by some kind of geographic barrier. The diagram below illustrates this process: Allopatric speciation can occur in another way as well: through long-distance dispersal and colonization of a new habitat. This mechanism is illustrated in the diagram below: The diagram below shows a general model for sympatric speciation: How could sympatric speciation happen? Sympatric speciation goes against this tendency; it requires the formation of a group of finicky, “cliquish” breeders. Most of the well-known examples involve genetic errors that produce offspring with extra chromosomes, a condition known as polyploidy. To Learn More: Lineages split through a process called speciation. Sometimes speciation occurs when populations are separated in space (allopatric speciation) but it also may occur without physical barriers (sympatric speciation). Homologous features are detailed, genetic or genetically-based similarities that are best explained as the outcome of shared ancestry. Macroevolutionary thinking can be helpful in many practical ways. We can also learn about ourselves by studying model organisms as different as yeast, worms, and mice. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Review the concepts above and the key terms for this Module; then take the Module Quiz. We’ve seen that these changes can lead to adaptation. But how does this relate to macroevolution? Two additional members of the Spoonbill clade, genus Platalea. Royal Spoonbill (left), Eurasian Spoonbill (right). Left image by Fir0002(Wikipedia) (Royal Spoonbill mouth open) GFDL 1.2. Right image by Andreas Trepte (Eurasian Spoonbill) CC BY-SA 2.5. In the early 1700s, Carolus Linnaeus established the modern system for naming and classifying organisms. Higher levels of classification are the genus, family, order, class, phylum, and kingdom. Below, the Linnaean hierarchy is shown for the Roseate Spoonbill. Table 2.Linnean classification is a system of nested groups. How does this classification system relate to macroevolution? We hypothesize that the members of a genus had a recent common ancestor; members of genera within a family can be traced to an earlier common ancestor; and so forth. It partly reflects our understanding of how biological diversity has evolved over time. The idea of common ancestry is very strongly supported by many lines of evidence. And fossils provide a historic record of the traits of our ancestors. You will see some such evidence in this Module. To Learn More / Credits: All taxonomic data based on current status in the Integrated Taxonomic Information System, http://www.itis.gov/ However, each and every event of macroevolution occurs through the processes of microevolution you just studied. The two processes are continuous and are part of a unified whole. A lineage is a group of populations that evolves independently of other groups. Members of the same lineage can move between its populations. Mating may occur between members of different populations in the same lineage. Lineages change as their member populations evolve and exchange genes and individuals with each other. To get a clearer sense for the nature of a biological lineage, do the Learn By Doing activity below. To recap, a lineage is a group of populations that can exchange genes and individuals and that evolves as a unit as shown in the Figure below. The lineage evolves through changes that occur in its component populations. Evolution within a biological lineage.  Within a biological lineage, evolution occurs as the component populations evolve. The diagram shows evolution of a biological lineage starting at an arbitrary reference point (“baseline generation”). Each chevron represents a snapshot of the lineage at one point in time. Consider the Roseate Spoonbill (Platalea ajaja). There are populations of Roseate Spoonbill in coastal and wetland areas within South America, Central America, and the U.S. Gulf Coast. Each is a distinct biological lineage. Roseate Spoonbill, Platalea ajaja. Speciation is the formation of new biological lineages.  The following is a list of the key terms discussed in the CC-OLI Biological Principles course and their meaning.  The processes that transfer chemical elements between biotic and abiotic components in an ecosystem Biology is a vast subject divided into many branches or subdivisions representing areas of specialization. Branches of biology include: anatomy, biochemistry, ecology, evolution, genetics, immunology, physiology, and many more.  The total mass of organic matter in an ecosystem or the mass of all members of some specified group of organisms (e.g. producer biomass, insect biomass, etc.)  An adjective that describes living organisms or their remains.  Cycling of chemicals among living organisms Cells are fluid-filled spaces bound by a membrane. Understanding the basic principles of chemistry is vitally important in studying biology, as many biological interactions involve chemistry. An adjective that describes materials that are considered nonliving. Rocks, air, and ice are abiotic.  is the effort to make humans and ecosystems less vulnerable to the effects of ongoing and future climate change. is the effort to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or increase the rate at which they are removed from the air, thereby slowing the pace and reducing the severity of climate change.  Describes a property of matter in which particles tend to stick together.  All of the populations interacting with each other within a specified area. Humans and other animals are consumers, as are fungi and most bacteria.  A group of subjects in an experiment that does not receive the treatment to be evaluated, but is otherwise similar to the experimental group. The control group provides a strong basis for comparison, demonstrating what happens in the absence of the factor being tested. An effect; a variable that is thought to change as a result or consequence of some other variable. In an experiment, a dependent variable is used to describe the result, or outcome.  All the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic (nonliving) materials and conditions in that area.  Negatively charged subatomic particle that occupies shells surrounding the nucleus and has a mass that is so small it is considered to be zero. The most important strongly electronegative elements in biological systems are oxygen and nitrogen.  Characteristics of a system that do not appear in any one of its component parts alone, but that appear when all parts are combined.  A scientific theory explaining how and why genetic changes occur in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time.  A group of subjects in an experiment that receives the treatment to be evaluated. If the hypothesis is correct, the dependent variable will change in a predictable way within the experimental group.  A linear series of community members linked by feeding relationships: grass → rabbit → fox  A diagram showing all feeding relationships in a community; emphasizes the complexity of real communities which generally have many interconnected food chains It is the full range of climatic disruptions that have occurred as a probable result of human alteration of the atmosphere. In other words, it is recent climate warming—and weirdness—that is probably caused by humans. Certain gases warm the climate by absorbing and re-emitting heat radiation, keeping temperatures warmer and more stable near the planet’s surface. Humans have strengthened this effect by adding extra greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Some results have included increased temperatures, increased sea level, increasingly variable weather, melting ice and permafrost, increasing droughts, shifts in species distributions, and shifts in the timing of seasonal events. Greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat waves (infrared radiation). Much of the heat (infrared) radiation that leaves Earth’s surface is absorbed by greenhouse gases and reemitted back toward Earth. As a result, these gases retain heat in the atmosphere. Instead of escaping immediately to space, heat is delayed near the Earth’s surface and continues to warm our atmosphere.  Increase in size of an organism. Biological growth, unlike the growth of a glacier or a mountain, is not merely an increase in size; it also involves the reorganization of materials into the unique structures of the organism. This is widely acknowledged as the most important direct threat to biodiversity worldwide. Habitats that have been profoundly changed by human activities include forests (clearing), grasslands (plowing and overgrazing), rivers (damming), and wetlands (draining).  The tendency of organisms and cells to maintain stable internal conditions. The term comes from the Greek words homeo (same, alike) and stasis (standing).  A proposed explanation of an observation; often referred to as an “educated guess.” In the process of the scientific method, a hypothesis is tested through experimentation and/or observation.  A cause or factor; a variable that is thought to cause another variable to change. In an experiment, an independent variable is deliberately changed in one group at the beginning of the study. Positive ions are referred to as cations. Negative ions are referred to as anions.  An attractive force generated by the interactions between ions of opposite charges. Anything that occupies space and has mass. Subatomic particle with a neutral charge that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit.  The word nucleus is used in two different contexts in the study of biology. Loosely defined, nucleus means "center" or "core." Forms of matter that an organism requires and that the organism cannot make for itself. Nutrients must be taken in from the outside environment. The basic unit of matter that cannot be further broken down without losing its unique properties. A collection of tissues grouped together based on a common general function. A compartment inside the cells of eukaryotes that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. An organism is an individual living entity that survives and reproduces as a unit. Human harvesting—hunting, fishing, logging, gathering, and so on—removes individuals more quickly than they can be replaced by natural reproduction. This was historically a major threat in North America and Europe, but today most fish and wildlife resources are fairly well-protected. Open ocean fisheries and tropical mammals, by contrast, are heavily impacted by human harvesting today. This leads to biodiversity loss. It may also increase our exposure to forest fires, floods, droughts, soil erosion, landslides, and other physical hazards.  Wastes generated by human activities change habitat conditions or threaten the health of organisms directly. Pollution of the atmosphere by greenhouse gases generates climate change, a problem so complex and severe that it is often counted as a separate threat category.  Positively charged subatomic particle that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Can be approximated by adding the number of protons and the number of neutrons. those that are replenished quickly enough to replace what we consume. Resources are renewed through growth or other ongoing processes. Process by which an individual organism gives rise to offspring, passing on its genetic information to the next generation. Currently, the average citizen of a developed nation consumes an average of 16 tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year. Shortages may result if humans use resources at an unsustainable rate. Wild plants and animals may be harvested to the point of extinction. Degradation of soil can lead to crop failures. Minerals and fossil fuels may be depleted to the point where their extraction becomes increasingly expensive and disruptive. A structured and active process used to test a hypothesis. In an experiment, the scientist has some form of control over the variables at work in the system under study. Typically some variable is deliberately changed by the experimenter and other variables are monitored to see if they change as a result. a process used to explore and describe patterns in nature. In a strictly observational study, the scientist does not have control over the conditions or variables at work in the system under study. The scientist reports what has happened without taking steps to intervene in the system. Selection takes forms such as natural selection (favors traits that aid in survival to reproductive age), sexual selection (favors traits that boost mating success), and artificial selection (favors traits that are chosen by human breeders).  Component of a solution that is present in the smallest quantity and which dissolves in a solvent. Homogeneous mixtures of solvent and solute.  Component of a solution that is present in the greatest quantity and in which something else is dissolved.  The capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. Therefore the atomic number of lithium is 3. Sustainable technologies meet human needs—economic and social—and preserve the productivity or biodiversity of ecosystems over a long period of time. a groups of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function within an organism. In the lung, for instance, the lining of airways comprises one type of tissue: a layer of similar cells that forms a sealed surface. A characteristic of a subject that can vary from one subject to the next or over time. Biodegradable materials are more sustainable over time because natural decomposition processes will break them down and recycle any nutrients they contain. Nonbiodegradable materials tend to accumulate over time and may cause negative environmental impacts. Portions of this course are built on materials developed and generously provided by University of Maryland University College, made available with permission under a CC-BY-NC license. Direct use of specific activities and media elements are noted throughout the course. The development and ongoing improvement of an OLI course is always a collaborative effort, built on the time, talent and commitment of many individuals. This OLI Biology Course is no exception.  Biologists have different ways of representing chemical structures. Each type conveys different information.  The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Cyclic sugars that contain a five membered ring are called furanoses. Deeper understanding of hydrophobic interactions requires familiarity with concepts of thermodynamics (entropy). An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. a structural unit of a polymer. In biochemistry, monomer is also used to specify a protein that contains only one polypeptide. In contrast, multimeric proteins may contain two (dimer), three (trimer), four (tetramer) or more polypeptide chains. Structural unit of a larger molecule or a protein in a multi-protein complex. This term is similar, but not identical to the term monomer. Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme. A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Electronegativity increases as one moves from left to right, across the periodic chart. The the bonding partner in the covalent bond becomes partially positively charged (as indicated by δ+ ). An organism with complex cells with distinctive traits such as a nucleaus, membrane-bound organelles, a cytoskeleton, and the presence of introns in genes. The following is a list of the key terms discussed in this Introduction to Biology course and their meaning. Adenosine diphosphate, or ADP, consists of a single adenosine molecule (composed of an adenine base bound to a ribose sugar) linked to two phosphate ions. Building ATP from ADP is an anabolic reaction that requires catabolic pathways such as cellular respiration. Referring to cells that contain two sets of chromosomes (i.e. pairs of homologous chromosomes). One set of chromosomes is inherited from the mother and the other set is inherited from the father. Diploid cells are 2n. Somatic and germ cells are diploid. A carbohydrate made of two monosaccharides linked together by a covalent bond. Two common disaccharides are sucrose and lactose. glucose + fructose = Sucrose (table sugar) glucose + galactose = Lactose (milk sugar) The nucleic acid that contains genetic instructions for making RNA and, ultimately, proteins in all living organisms. Describes a trait that is expressed (manifested as a phenotype) even when only one copy of the allele encoding the trait is present in the genotype. Return to the top of the page.  All the living (biotic) things in a particular area together with the abiotic (nonliving) materials and conditions in that area; i.e., a biological community and its physical environment. It consists of a single adenosine molecule (composed of the base adenine bound to a ribose sugar), linked to three phosphate ions. Negatively charged subatomic particle that occupies shells surrounding the nucleus and has a mass that is so small it is considered to be zero. The most important strongly electronegative elements in biological systems are oxygen and nitrogen. There are 92 elements found in nature.  Characteristics of a system that do not appear in any one of its component parts alone, but that appear when all parts are combined. It encompasses the endoplasmic reticulum (rough and smooth), the Golgi apparatus, and vesicles. These are all examples of animals with thick insulating “blubber” beneath the skin.  The capacity to do work. Work is any change that won’t happen on its own. A protein that acts as a catalyst for chemical reactions in biological organisms. Enzymes increase the speed of chemical reactions. They are proteins that bind to a chemical (called a substrate) and chemically modify the substrate into an end product. The substrate binds to the active site of the enzyme. All organisms except bacteria and archaea are composed of eukaryotic cells (also referred to as eukaryotes); that is, all species of animal, plants and fungi are composed of eukaryotic cells.  A scientific theory explaining how and why genetic changes occur in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time.  A group of subjects in an experiment that receives the treatment to be evaluated. If the hypothesis is correct, the dependent variable will change in a predictable way within the experimental group. Return to the top of the page. First filial offspring of the parents; the first generation of offspring; the first child of a parent. Second filial generation; offspring of the F1 generation; grandchild of a parent. The passage diffusion of a substance across a biological membrane down its concentration gradient, aided by specific transport proteins. Such pathways produce only a tiny amount of ATP compared to aerobic cellular respiration. It can be found in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. A group of organisms that are joined in a linear series of feeding relationships starting with the producer and moving up the trophic levels. A diagram showing all feeding relationships in a community; emphasizes the complexity of real communities which generally have many overlapping and interconnected food chains. Functional groups give a molecule its characteristics and participate in predictable chemical reactions. Return to the top of the page. All the genetic information in an organism. Germ cells are immature reproductive cells. In humans, germ cells are found in the testes of men and ovaries of women. Excess glycogen is converted to fat. An organelle in eukaryotic cells consisting of stacks of membranous sacs that modify, store, and ship products of the endoplasmic reticulum. A phenomenon in which greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere support heat retention and serve to maintain warm and relatively stable surface temperatures. Certain gases warm the climate by absorbing and re-emitting heat radiation, keeping temperatures warmer and more stable near the planet’s surface. Humans have strengthened this effect by adding extra greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Some results have included increased temperatures, increased sea level, increasingly variable weather, melting ice and permafrost, increasing droughts, shifts in species distributions, and shifts in the timing of seasonal events. Greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat waves (infrared radiation). Much of the heat (infrared) radiation that leaves Earth’s surface is absorbed by greenhouse gases and reemitted back toward Earth. As a result, these gases retain heat in the atmosphere. Instead of escaping immediately to space, heat is delayed near the Earth’s surface and continues to warm our atmosphere.  Increase in size of an organism. Biological growth, unlike the growth of a glacier or a mountain, is not merely an increase in size; it also involves the reorganization of materials into the unique structures of the organism. Return to the top of the page. This is widely acknowledged as the most important direct threat to biodiversity worldwide. Habitats that have been profoundly changed by human activities include forests (clearing), grasslands (plowing and overgrazing), rivers (damming), and wetlands (draining). Cells that contain only one set of chromosomes. Haploid cells are referred to as "1n". Gametes (sperm and eggs) are haploid. In human haploid gametes contain 23 chromosomes. Having two different alleles for a trait present.  The tendency of organisms and cells to maintain stable internal conditions. The term comes from the Greek words homeo (same, alike) and stasis (standing). A matched pair of chromosomes are the same length and contain genes for the same characteristics at the same position on them. For each homologous pair, one chromosome is inherited from the mother and the other is inherited from the father. Shared features/traits that were inherited from the same source and reflect common ancestry. Remember these features/traits are based in genes (not acquired through learning or the environment). Refers to one of the other of a homologous pair of chromosomes. Each is considered the homologue of the other. Both alleles present are identical. What remains is only a single proton. Ionic and polar substances are hydrophilic. In comparing two solutions, hypertonic refers to the one with the greater concentration of solutes.  A proposed explanation of an observation; often referred to as an “educated guess.” In the process of the scientific method, a hypothesis is tested through experimentation and/or observation. In comparing two solutions, hypotonic refers to the one with the lower concentration of solutes. Return to the top of the page.  A cause or factor; a variable that is thought to cause another variable to change. In an experiment, an independent variable is deliberately changed in one group at the beginning of the study. This is sometimes referred to as the "ripple effect". At physiological pH, acidic groups lose protons (acting as an acid) and become negatively charged. To “inhibit” means to restrain or hinder. Inhibitors reduce the activity of enzymes or other proteins. A protein that completely spans the plasma membrane. The protein has regions that are hydrophilic and hydrophobic. Cells spend the majority of their time in interphase. This is a type of community interaction and has three subtypes: mutualism, predation, and competition. An attractive force generated by the interactions between ions of opposite charges. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. Having the same solute concentration as another solution. At physiological pH, basic groups gain a proton (acting as a base) and become positively charged. Return to the top of the page. Diagrammatic representation of an organism's genome. Karyotypes are used to count and analyze the chromosomes of an individual and can also be used in the determination of chromosomal abnormalities. Proteins on the centromere where microtubules attach. These attached microtubules are called kinetochore microtubules. Return to the top of the page. When the lac repressor protein is bound to the operator, no mRNA is made from the genes that encode lactose metabolism. The repressor is bound to the operator in the absense of lactose, and released from the operator when lactose is present. Each pair of alleles segregates separately of any other pair of alleles when gametes are formed. Click on one of the letters below to jump to that setion of the glossary: Lipids include fats, oils, waxes, phospholipids, and steroids. Return to the top of the page. Anything that occupies space and has mass. Meiosis only occurs in organisms that sexually reproduce and results in the production of sperm in males and eggs in females. The second half of the whole process of meiosis in which the sister chromatids in each of the two haploid cells produced during meiosis I are separated. Meiosis II results in the production of four haploid gamate cells and is similar in process to mitosis. Metabolism is the sum of all chemical activity within a living organism; it is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical conversions, each of which is catalyzed (generally speeded up, but sometimes slowed down) by an enzyme (protein catalyst). Microtubules consist of proteins called tubulins. (pl. Composition and size are two charateristics of a molecule. A condition where an abnormal number of chromosomes and genetic material migrates and attaches where it does not belong. Representation of atomic composition of a molecule. A monomer is a repeating structural unit of a polymer. Cross between two organisms, each of which is heterozygous for the trait. Some common monosaccharides are glucose, fructose, and ribose. Return to the top of the page. A process by which nature (i.e. The general form of a neutralization reaction is: Subatomic particle with a neutral charge that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. A molecule that is one of the three components that make a nucleotide. There are five bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), thymine (T), and uracil (U). The failure of sister chromatids or homologous chromosomes to separate during anaphase of either mitosis or meiosis. Each nucleotide is made up of three components: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. It is the full range of climatic disruptions that have occurred as a probable result of human alteration of the atmosphere. In other words, it is recent climate warming—and weirdness—that is probably caused by human activities and technology use. (plural, nuclei) The word nucleus is used in two different contexts in the study of biology. Loosely defined, nucleus means "center" or "core." Forms of matter that an organism requires and that the organism cannot make for itself. Nutrients must be taken in from the outside environment. Return to the top of the page. Collection of genes that are transcribed on the same mRNA from a single promoter. Usually, all of the genes code for enzymes in a single biochemical pathway, allowing coordinated control of the expression of all of the enzymes in one pathway. A collection of tissues grouped together based on a common general function. Most, but not all, organelles are enclosed by a membrane. In eukaryotes, organelles are membrane-bound compartments that contain specific groups of macromolecules that carry out specific cellular functions. Although, prokaryotes are less complex than eukaryotes, they contain subunits (non-membrane bound structures) that perform specific functions, such as the flagellum and the ribosome. The term organic is in common use these days. In these cases, organic refers to the way the tomatoes and cotton were grown — without the use of man-made pesticides or fertilizers, and nurtured only by natural substances. Here, organic is used to denote a natural process. You can see then that the word organic is used in two different ways. Be careful not to confuse the two. Yes. But are they organic? An organism is an individual living entity that survives and reproduces as a unit. Cells containing this plasmid will be resistant, and therefore able to grow, in the presence of the antibiotic. Human harvesting—hunting, fishing, logging, gathering, and so on — removes individuals more quickly than they can be replaced by natural reproduction. This was historically a major threat in North America and Europe, but today most fish and wildlife resources are fairly well-protected. Open ocean fisheries and tropical mammals, by contrast, are heavily impacted by human harvesting today. Return to the top of the page. Parental generation. Mapping or charting of a family history, showing the occurrence of a trait or characteristic. Mated individuals are connected by a horizontal line, and children are connected to them by vertical branches extending down from the line. Individuals expressing a genetic trait are shaded; and, individuals not expressing the trait are not shaded. A protein loosely bound to the surface of the plasma membrane. A tabular categorization of all of the elements arranged in order of increasing atomic number. Also called the Periodic Table, the table is organized such that elements with similar properties are grouped in the same column (called a chemical group) and elements with the same number of electron shells appear in the same row (called a period). Solutions with a pH less than 7 are acidic. Solutions with a pH of 7 are neutral. Solutions with a pH greater than 7 are basic. Physical or physiological characteristic present; also defined as the manifestation of the genes in an organism. The overall equation for photosynthesis is: Phylogenetic tree (also called phylogeny), is a tree diagram that represents a hypothesis as to how a biological lineage may have branched and formed clades over time. Remember that as a hypothesis, phylogenetic trees are subject to change as more data are gathered and as analysis techniques improve. This leads to biodiversity loss. It may also increase our exposure to forest fires, floods, droughts, soil erosion, landslides, and other physical hazards. Different colored pigments absorb different wavelengths of light. The color of the pigment that we see is the wavelength that the pigment reflects (and does not absorb). A substance having no medicinal benefit that is administered to the control group in a study so that these study participants do no know if they are in the control or experimental group. Placebos in drug trials are often sugar pills or a vitamin formulated to look like the drug being tested. Interestingly, sometimes patients taking a placebo will report that they notice an improvement in the medical condition the drug is designed to treat or even experience a real medical improvement all because they think they are taking the new drug. This phenomenon is called the placebo effect. It constitutes a semipermeable boundary, where certain substances can cross and others cannot. Deliberate mating between two individuals who were selected based on desired traits.  Wastes generated by human activities change habitat conditions or threaten the health of organisms directly. Pollution of the atmosphere by greenhouse gases generates climate change, a problem so complex and severe that it is often counted as a separate threat category. A single trait resulting from the interaction of multiple genes. A carbohydrate consisting of long chains of monosaccharides. Some common polysaccharides are starch, glycogen, and cellulose. A type of reproduction where genetically identical offspring are created from a single parent. This type of reproduction does not utilize meiosis or gametes. Bacteria and fungi are examples of organisms that reproduce in this manner. States that some traits are dominant and can mask recessive traits. Producers make up trophic level 1 in most ecosystems. Plants, algae, and cyanobacteria are examples of producers. Prokaryotic cells are unicellular organism found only in the domains bacteria and archaea. This is the first stage of mitosis. A positively charged subatomic particle that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Table method used to assess probabilities of outcomes in genetics. The basic unit of matter that cannot be further broken down without losing its unique properties. Return to the top of the page. Describes a trait that is masked by the dominant trait and is only expressed in the homozygous condition. Material used or consumed by humans that can be replenished sufficiently to prevent complete consumption of that material. Resources are renewed through growth or other ongoing processes. The process by which an individual organism gives rise to offspring, passing on its genetic information to the next generation. Material used or consumed by humans that is nearing or at depletion and may not be replenishable. Currently, the average citizen of a developed nation consumes an average of 16 tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year. Shortages may result if humans use resources at an unsustainable rate. Wild plants and animals may be harvested to the point of extinction. Degradation of soil can lead to crop failures. Minerals and fossil fuels may be depleted to the point where their extraction becomes increasingly expensive and disruptive. The nucleic acid composed of nucleotides in a single strand whose primary function is protein synthesis. The type of RNA that is component of a ribosome, and which assists with the process of translating the instructions for making proteins that are present in messenger RNA (mRNA). The ribosomal subunits are constructed in the nucleolus. In prokaryotes ribosomes are found in the cytoplasm; however, in eukaryotes they are mainy associated with part of the endoplasmic reticulum, named rough endoplasmic reticulum -- due to its dotted appearance. ~~ A ~~ B ~~ C ~~ D ~~ E ~~ F ~~ G ~~ H ~~ I ~~ J ~~ K ~~ L ~~ M ~~ Sequence on mRNA that is responsible for binding of the mRNA to prokaryotic ribosomes. Return to the top of the page. All the bonds are single therefore the entire fatty acid can form a linear shape. Saturated fats tend to have a higher melting point and are likely to be solid at room temparature; e.g., butter and lard. A structured and active process used to test a hypothesis. In an experiment, the scientist has some form of control over the variables at work in the system under study. Typically some variable is deliberately changed by the experimenter and other variables are monitored to see if they change as a result. The application of scientific observation, experimentation and the scientific method to study, interpret and predict natural phenomena in the world around us. A process used to explore and describe patterns in nature. In a strictly observational study, the scientist does not have control over the conditions or variables at work in the system under study. The scientist reports what has happened without taking steps to intervene in the system. The two alleles for each trait separate when gametes form. Selection takes forms such as natural selection (favors traits that aid in survival to reproductive age), sexual selection (favors traits that boost mating success), and artificial selection (favors traits that are chosen by human breeders). This property allows the membrane to regulate the passage of substances across them. The atomic mass, more specifically, is the mass of the nucleus which is the sum of the protons and neutrons in the nucleus. Describes a trait associated to alleles located on sex chromosomes, most commonly it is X-linked. A more complicated form of reproduction where two haploid, gametes (sperm and egg) fuse to create a diploid zygote. This type of reproduction produces offspring that are genetically different from their parents. Natural selection arising through preference by one sex for certain characteristics in individuals of the other sex. The spontaneous movement of particles of any kind down a concentration gradient; that is, movement of particles from where they are more concentrated to where they are less concentrated. A centromere connects two sister chromatids together. When joined together sister chromatids compose one chromosome, and chromatids are separated from each other during mitosis or meiosis. Component of a solution that is present in the smallest quantity and which dissolves in a solvent. Homogeneous mixtures of solvent and solute. Component of a solution that is present in the greatest quantity and in which something else is dissolved. Examples are lung and heart cells, nerve cells, and blood cells. Therefore the atomic number of lithium is 3. A group of organisms whose members can and will breed with each other to produce fertile offspring. This is a statistic used to describe an ecological community. Starch is made by producers, not animals. It is almost always AUG. Also known as steroid alcohols, these are an important subgroup of steroids widely distributed in animal and plant lipids. Produced by the activity of most restriction endonucleases. Codon in the mRNA that signals the termination of the polypeptide chain. Three stop codons are UAG, UAA, or UGA. A molecule that binds to the active site of an enzyme. Upon bonding to the enzyme, the substrate molecule is converted into a new molecule. That is, the enzyme converts the substrate(s) into a different chemical arrangement. Structural unit of a larger molecule or a protein in a multi-protein complex. This term is similar, but not identical to the term monomer. Describes a trait associated with alleles located on autosomes (non sex chromosomes). The capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. Solutions that meet human economic and social needs while preserving the productivity or biodiversity of ecosystems over a long period of time. These direct interactions are described using the term symbiosis, which translates to “together living.” Return to the top of the page. This is the final stage of mitosis. A groups of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function within an organism. In the lung, for instance, the lining of airways comprises one type of tissue: a layer of similar cells that forms a sealed surface. Form of a characteristic represented. Return to the top of the page. The process by which the information stored in messenger RNA is used to synthesize proteins. There are many different triglyceriders; some are highly saturated and some are unsaturated. These food based groupings are called trophic levels. Trophic level 1 is composed of producers that form the base of all ecosystems. Organisms in level 1 are eaten by organisms in level 2; organisms in level 2 are eaten by organisms in level 3; organisms in level 3 are by organisms in level 4, and so on. Describes organisms that when bred only have offspring with the same phenotype as the parents; the organism is homozygous at the genotypes of interest. Return to the top of the page. Bases taste bitter and feel slippery. Soaps are common basic substances. Unsaturated fats tend to have a lower melting point and will remain fluid at room temperature. Return to the top of the page. A characteristic of a subject that can vary from one subject to the next or over time. An acellular infectious particle, made of a nucleic acid surrounded by a protein coat and sometimes with an additional envelope. Viruses need to infect a host in order to replicate. Return to the top of the page. In animals this occurs when a sperm fertilizes an egg. Return to the top of the page. Materials capable of natural decomposition and which break down into nutrients or elements that can be recycled. Biodegradable materials are more sustainable over time because they can be recycled in an ecosystem or biogeochemical cycle. Nonbiodegradable materials tend to accumulate over time and may cause negative environmental impacts. The processes that transfer chemical elements between biotic and abiotic components in an ecosystem. A lineage is a group of populations that evolves independently of other groups. ~~ N ~~ O ~~ P ~~ Q ~~ R ~~ S ~~ T ~~ U ~~ V ~~ W ~~ X ~~ Y ~~ Z ~~ Biology is a vast subject divided into many branches or subdivisions representing areas of specialization. Branches of biology include: anatomy, biochemistry, ecology, evolution, genetics, immunology, physiology, and many more. The principle that living things come only from other living things. The total amount (mass) of living organic materials within an ecosystem or the mass of all members of some specified group of organisms (e.g. producer biomass, insect biomass, etc.)  An adjective that describes living organisms or their remains.  Cycling of chemicals among living organisms Solutions which resist changes in pH by acting as either an acid or a base. This means that if a small amount of acid or base is introduced to the bloodstream, components in your blood will neutralize the acid or base and the pH of your blood will change only very slightly. Return to the top of the page. Common carbohydrates are sugars and starches. An adjective that describes nonliving materials in the environment, such as sunlight, rain, gases in the air, rocks, and chemicals in the soil. A substance that speeds up a chemical reaction, but is not itself chemically-altered in the process. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Cells are fluid-filled spaces bound by a membrane. The overall equation for cellular respiration is: The place where the microtubules originate from during mitosis. Centrioles are contained within the centrosomes. Heritable features, such as color and shape. Many foods and beverages are acidic, including citrus fruit and tomato juice. Examples of chemical reactions you may recognize are: rust forming through the reaction of oxygen in the air with iron; or, silver tarnish resulting from the reaction of silver with moisture in the air. Understanding the basic principles of chemistry is vitally important in studying biology, as many biological interactions involve chemistry. Chlorophyll gives plants their green color because it absorbs red and blue light particularly well, while reflecting green. An organelle found in plants and photosynthetic protists (single-Celled eukaryotic organisms) which contain pigments such as chlorophyl. When the cells divide, chromatin condenses and becomes visible as chromosomes. It can be found on certain eukaryotic cells, such as the cells of the respiratory system. Actions humans take to prepare for future changes in climate and minimize harm to humans and ecosystems. It is the effort to make humans and ecosystems less vulnerable to the effects of ongoing and future climate change. The effort to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or increase the rate at which they are removed from the air, thereby slowing the pace and reducing the severity of climate change. The genetically identical offspring produced from asexual reproduction. Different organisms prefer one codon over another.  Describes a property of matter in which particles tend to stick together. A chemical reaction between a chemical and oxygen that releases heat and light quickly. The part of an enzyme to which a substrate binds.  All of the populations interacting with each other within a specified area. An increase or decrease in the density of a chemical substance within a given region. When a gradient exists, the ions or other chemical substances involved tend to move from where they are more concentrated to where they are less concentrated. A chemical reaction where two chemicals are bound together. Humans and other animals are consumers, as are fungi and most bacteria.  A group of subjects in an experiment that does not receive the treatment to be evaluated, but is otherwise similar to the experimental group. The control group provides a strong basis for comparison, demonstrating what happens in the absence of the factor being tested. Any variable in an experiment that is kept the same between the control and experimental groups. Additionally, scientists may also put all of the study participants on the same diet and exercise plan. Crossing over is a process in which genes swap positions between chromatids of homologous chromosomes during Prophase I of meiosis. The result of crossing over is a new combination of genes on each chromosome and leads to increased genetic diversity. Return to the top of the page. The state in which unfolded protein chains become entangled with one another. Extreme temperature and pH are two causes of protein denaturation. An effect; a variable that is thought to change as a result or consequence of some other variable. In an experiment, a dependent variable is used to describe the result, or outcome. Indigestible carbohydrates, which cannot be degraded by human digestive enzymes but that still play important roles in maintaining health. The spontaneous movement of particles of any kind down a concentration gradient; that is, movement of particles from where they are more concentrated to where they are less concentrated. Cross between two organisms that are each heterozygous for two distinct genes.  The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Cyclic sugars that contain a five membered ring are called furanoses. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Structural unit of a larger molecule or a protein in a multi-protein complex. This term is similar, but not identical to the term monomer. Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme. Refer to page. A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes are not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Electronegativity increases as one moves from left to right, across the periodic chart. The the bonding partner in the covalent bond becomes partially positively charged (as indicated by δ+ ). Refer to page. An organism with complex cells with distinctive traits such as a nucleaus, membrane-bound organelles, a cytoskeleton, and the presence of introns in genes. Refer to page.  The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Cyclic sugars that contain a five membered ring are called furanoses. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. No electron sharing or transfer occurs. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme. Refer to page. A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Refer to page. Electronegativity increases as one moves from left to right, across the periodic chart. The the bonding partner in the covalent bond becomes partially positively charged (as indicated by δ+ ). Refer to page. An organism with complex cells with distinctive traits such as a nucleaus, membrane-bound organelles, a cytoskeleton, and the presence of introns in genes. Refer to page. . At physiological pH, acidic groups loose proton (act as an acid) and become negatively charged. At physiological pH, basic groups gain a proton (acting as a base) and become positively charged. You can select individual groups or select by property. This page is dedicated to instructions about the Activities. Many pages of this course contain formulas which require that your browser supports displaying MathML. You should run "Test and Configure My System" from your My Courses page to make sure your browser supports the tools the course uses.  This course has many interactive activities that you are encouraged to complete. You can repeat many of the activities as necessary. General instructions for the use of the tools will always be available in the Glossary Unit: Instructions for Activities. Any Flash movie can be zoomed. Jmol is an open-source Java viewer for chemical structures in 3D. Jmol returns a 3D representation of a molecule that may be manipulated in a number of ways.  In the Functional Groups Activity you can find many examples of 2-D and 3-D representations. Use this table as a quick reference for the major elements. Use this table as a quick reference for the major elements.  The following is the list of simulations provided within the various modules of the course.  The following is the list of simulations provided within the various modules of the course.  The following is the list of tutorial animations explaining various complex biological processes.  The following is the list of tutorial animations explaining various complex biological processes.  The following is the list of tutorial animations explaining various complex biological processes.

3. [u'proteins', u'protein', u'cell']
   Previously, you explored how proteins interact with their ligands, using the example of myoglobin and oxygen. For example, your favorite book contains paper made of cellulose from trees. In the example of the binding pocket of the estrogen receptor there are several hydrogen bond contacts and a hydrophobic pocket for the mostly hydrophobic estrogen. We will use myoglobin, as an example, to explore the equilibrium established between the bound protein ligand complex and free reactants. We will use myoglobin, as an example, to explore the equilibrium established between the bound protein ligand complex and free reactants. We will use myoglobin, as an example, to explore the equilibrium established between the bound protein ligand complex and free reactants. For example, hemoglobin binds to oxygen in the lungs and releases it in the tissues. Oxygen binding to myoglobin is an example of buffering while the protein hemoglobin is involved in the transport of oxygen from the lungs to the tissues. For example, the estrogen receptor protein, shown below in yellow and purple, binds DNA only when estrogen (red) is bound to the protein. Water is a good example of how the very electronegative atom of oxygen influences the electrons shared with hydrogen. For example, the P-O bond in DNA is polar, with the phosphorous having a partial positive charge since it is less electronegative than oxygen. For example, chlorine is on the right of the periodic table and is extremely electronegative and, thus, wants to acquire an electron, whereas, sodium on the extreme left of the periodic table wants to give up its unpaired electron. The example shown below is the three carbon carbohydrate, glyceraldehyde. The ability to discriminate between the enantiomers is an example of bioselectivity. For example, the positive Na ion, and negatively charged Cl ion, are attracted to each other and form table salt. The one-carbon alcohol, methanol, is an example of a polar molecule. For example, shaking a bottle of oil and vinegar (acetic acid in water), such as in a salad dressing, results in the oil being dispersed as tiny droplets in the vinegar. For example, the common gecko generates sufficient van der Waals forces due to the large surface area of its foot pads to walk on the ceiling! For example, the type of bond can influence the fluidity of biological membranes and restrict the folding of proteins. The example shown below is the three carbon carbohydrate, glyceraldehyde. The ability to discriminate between the enantiomers is an example of bioselectivity. For example, the positive Na ion, and negatively charged Cl ion, are attracted to each other and form table salt. The one-carbon alcohol, methanol, is an example of a polar molecule. For example, shaking a bottle of oil and vinegar (acetic acid in water), such as in a salad dressing, results in the oil being dispersed as tiny droplets in the vinegar. For example, the common gecko generates sufficient van der Waals forces due to the large surface area of its foot pads to walk on the ceiling! For example, the type of bond can influence the fluidity of biological membranes and restrict the folding of proteins. What would happen if protons are added to the solution from another source, for example a strong acid, or a biochemical reaction that releases protons? What would happen if protons are added to the solution from another source, for example a strong acid, or a biochemical reaction that releases protons? For example, acetic acid has a Ka of around 0.0001 or 1.0 x 10-4 while the Ka of ammonia is 105 fold smaller. For example, acetic acid has a Ka of around 0.0001 or 1.0 x 10-4 while the Ka of ammonia is 105 fold smaller. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. This ring closure was an example of an alcohol functional group reacting with the carbon of the carbonyl functional group in either the aldehyde (aldose) or ketone (ketose) group. This is another example of bioselectivity. For example, glucose and galactose are epimers of each other.  Glyceraldehyde was chosen as the first carbohydrate to study because it provides another example of the bioselectivity of biological systems.  Glycogen is another example of a homo-polysaccharide of glucose with a repeating structural unit of glucose. Each is a form of carbohydrate storage and represents an example of a hetero-disaccharide, i.e.  Glycogen is another example of a homo-polysaccharide of glucose with a repeating structural unit of glucose. Each is a form of carbohydrate storage and represents an example of a hetero-disaccharide, i.e. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. This is an example of the hydrophobic effect previously described in the section on bonding. This is an example of the hydrophobic effect previously described in the section on bonding. For example winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. For example, to date more than 50 kinds of proteins have been found in the plasma membrane of red blood cells. For example winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. For example, to date more than 50 kinds of proteins have been found in the plasma membrane of red blood cells. This is another example of a condensation reaction that results in formation of an ester in this case and the release of a water molecule. This is another example of a condensation reaction between an acid and an alcohol with the release of water. The following animation depicts another example of active transport; the sodium-potassium ATPase.  Protein Transduction – an example of macropinocytosis Protein Transduction – an example of macropinocytosis In most cases these channels are very discriminatory and will only allow specific molecules to pass; another example of bioselectivity. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. A second example of this type of permeable molecule is water which while polar is small and able to freely pass across the membrane. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. A second example of this type of permeable molecule is water which while polar is small and able to freely pass across the membrane. An example of this nomeclature is given below the table with the structures. For example, if an mRNA had three exons, 1, 2, and 3 in order, and two introns, the normal sequence of splicing would link exon 1 to exon 2 to exon 3. For example, the phosphorylation of glucose is very unfavorable if inorganic phosphate is used as the source of phosphate. For example, the phosphorylation of glucose is very unfavorable if inorganic phosphate is used as the source of phosphate. For example, the oxidation of isocitrate to ketoglutarate releases approximately 70 kJ/mol, 60 of which is captured by converting NAD+ to NADH. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . An example of an oxidation is the conversion of iron from its metallic state, Fe0, to its rusted form, Fe+3, by the loss of three electrons. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . An example of an oxidation is the conversion of iron from its metallic state, Fe0, to its rusted form, Fe+3, by the loss of three electrons. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . An example of an oxidation is the conversion of iron from its metallic state, Fe0, to its rusted form, Fe+3, by the loss of three electrons. For example, ATP synthase generates ATP from ADP and inorganic phosphate, a process that is driven by a proton gradient across a membrane. Almost all enzyme names have the suffix ase, indicating that they are an enzyme, for example kinase, lyase, phosphatase, etc. For example, an enzyme that oxidizes its substrate is referred to as a dehydrogenase because it removes hydrogens atoms during the oxidation process. For example, the enzyme that oxidizes succinate is called succinate dehydrogenase. For example, understanding life at its many levels can help improve medical treatments or predict how ecosystems will respond to global warming. For example, we now can selectively use antibiotics to control infectious bacterial diseases. For example, understanding life at its many levels can help improve medical treatments or predict how ecosystems will respond to global warming. For example, we now can selectively use antibiotics to control infectious bacterial diseases. To best understand biology, you need to apply an “interdisciplinary approach.” For example, concepts from chemistry and physics are both required to explain biological systems at many levels. Plants are an example of producers. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, experimenters would predict that the control group subjects—those who did not receive the drug—would not be cured over the course of the study. For example, in a study to test a drug, the dependent variable might be the proportion of subjects that are cured at the end of the study. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, a high proportion of those in the experimental group would be cured or helped by the treatment, if the hypothesis is correct. For example, in a study to test a drug, one group might be given the drug and another group would not; the independent variable in this example would be whether patients were given the drug. A variable may be a category to which a subject can be assigned (for example: male or female) or it may be measured precisely (for example: body mass). For example, the atoms in the sugar molecule start out as nutrients, and will ultimately become waste. For example, plant stems can grow toward a source of light. For example, cells typically keep their internal pH (acidity) within a narrow range. For example, plant stems can grow toward a source of light. For example, cells typically keep their internal pH (acidity) within a narrow range. For example, when you get cold, your muscles start to contract in rapid bursts, causing you to shiver. For example, the piece of wood could never function as a hot air balloon, no matter what kind of shape it took. For example, the earthworm is well-suited for burrowing: it is slimy, muscular, flexible, and cylindrical. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is abiotic. An example of a macromolecule is the genetic molecule deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) that contains the instructions for the development of all living organisms . For example, each tree in a forest is usually an individual organism. For example, a forest may include many pine trees. For example, the forest with pine trees includes populations of flowers, mammals, birds, insects, fungi, and bacteria, all of which can interact. For example, understanding how climate change affects ecosystems will help identify the ways in which sustainable food production can keep up with a growing human population. Take, for example, an automobile. A prime example of this is the years of biological research that resulted in the discovery of antibiotics to help treat bacterial infections. For example, understanding how climate change affects ecosystems will help identify the ways in which sustainable food production can keep up with a growing human population. For example, it was years of biological research that resulted in the discovery of antibiotics to help treat bacterial infections. Most modules will also include an “Application Spotlight” that gives you the opportunity to apply your understanding of the module’s content to a specific case study or real-life example. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is abiotic. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. Take, for example, an automobile. Perhaps an example would help clarify the nature of the levels between a cell and an organism. Your heart, for example, has muscle tissue for pumping and nerve tissue that helps coordinate each heartbeat. For example, a forest may include many pine trees. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is an abiotic substance. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is an abiotic substance. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is an abiotic substance. An example of a macromolecule is the genetic molecule deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) that contains the instructions for the development of all living organisms. For example, each tree in a forest is usually an individual organism. Consider this example to help clarify the nature of the levels between a cell and an organism. Your heart, for example, has muscle tissue for pumping and nerve tissue that helps coordinate each heartbeat. For example, a forest may include many pine trees. Continuing with our example, the forest with pine trees includes populations of flowers, mammals, birds, insects, fungi, and bacteria, all of which can interact. For example, urea, a component of urine, is abiotic. For example, science cannot answer questions about supernatural things. Take medicine, for example. For example, a scientist studying the mating behaviors of ladybugs might begin with detailed observations of ladybugs mating in their natural habitats. Biology is an example of a scientific field that deals with understanding living organisms. For example, a scientist studying the mating behaviors of ladybugs might begin with detailed observations of ladybugs mating in their natural habitats. For example, a scientist might observe that maple trees lose their leaves in the fall. For example, a scientist might observe that maple trees lose their leaves in the fall. For example, imagine that the people in the control group were, on average, much more sexually active than the people in the experimental group. In any real-world example, many, many variables MIGHT affect the outcome of an experiment, yet only one or a few independent variables can be tested. For our educational research example, if the control group consisted only of people between the ages of 18 and 20 and the experimental group contained people between the ages of 30 and 35, we would not know if it was the teaching strategy or the students' ages that played a larger role in the results. For example, imagine only 10 women were enrolled in the study. For example, perhaps none of the five women in the experimental group were sexually active over the study period. Biology is an example of a scientific field that deals with understanding living organisms. An example of the social and cultural nature of science is stem cell research. Take medicine, for example. An example of creativity in science is Barbara McClintock and her research on color patterns in corn kernels. The diagram below summarizes how the levels of analysis relate and gives a specific example (the forest) to guide your understanding. In the example above, the squirrels and sugar maples of a region, together with humans plus hundreds of additional populations of plants, animals, fungi, bacteria, and other organisms would make up a forest community. For example, deer survive frost well but are more likely to starve in a hard winter if there are many mouths to feed. For example, animal pollinators help us produce crops including almonds, soybeans, apples, tomatoes, coffee, cotton, and many more. Plants, for example, reward animals for transportation services that allow them to mate (pollination) and travel as seeds (seed dispersal). For example, aphids are excellent plant sap drillers but ants are much tougher and more mobile, so the trade between aphid and ant is quite logical. For example, birds such as herons may interact with pond communities by removing fish. For example, it is simple enough to discover a predator-prey relationship by watching a lion take down an antelope, or by finding prey in a predator’s stomach. Carbon, for example, makes up the backbone of all organic macromolecules. They help us understand, for example, why top predators are rare and why meat costs more than grain. Take as an example the simple act of eating a tomato. The simple example above illustrates two transfers of energy: sunlight → tomato and tomato → human. Mice, for example, may eat: Its roots, for example, hold soil in place. Take, for example, the use of fossil fuels. For example, some environmental conditions are better in high-income nations than in lower-income countries. In this page we will focus on human effects on the atmosphere and climate as a chief example of our ecosystem-level impacts. During the Stone Age, for example, human use of fire may have had a profound effect on many ecosystems.By setting forest and grassland fires, humans favor fire-adapted plant and animal species. Blood is an example of a buffered solution. For example, hydrogen always has only 1 proton and has an atomic number of 1. For example, sodium is an incredibly reactive element, especially when it combines with water. For example, the atomic mass of carbon (C) is 12.01. For example, radioactive iodine tends to concentrate in the thyroid gland. For example, the atomic mass of Carbon is 12.01. For example, radioactive iodine tends to concentrate in the thyroid gland. For example, chlorine (Cl) has seven electrons in its valence shell. For example, sodium (Na) has one electron in its valence shell. For example, stable isotopes can be used to trace chemical reactions through a food web. For example, if a stable isotope is used in fertilizer, that same isotope will later show up in the tissues of plants, then in animals, and finally in decomposers as the nutrient moves through the food web. One example of this is radioactive iodine, which tends to concentrate in the thyroid gland. Another example of radioactive isotopes is positron-emission tomography (PET). In fact, the reaction between sodium and chlorine is a great example of ionic bonding, and produces a compound you have in your kitchen — table salt. Carbon, for example, has an atomic number of 6 (see the figure below). Nitrogen, another example, has an atomic number of 7 (see the figure above). For example, the molecular mass of a single methane molecule is 16 Da (12 from the carbon, 4 from the hydrogens). For example, look at the glucose molecule shown on the right in a structural formula. For example, the molecular mass of single methane molecule is 16 Da (12 from the carbon, 4 from the hydrogens). For example, look at the glucose molecule shown on the right in a structural formula. Carbon, for example, has an atomic number of 6. In the following questions you are given an example of each of the first six types of substances listed. Match the example to where it belongs on the diagram based on the type of substance and its complexity. This makes it very difficult, for example, to “wash” oil off of waterfowl after an oil spill. For example, consider this series of simple alcohols. One example of amphipathic molecules are fatty acids. This makes it very difficult, for example, to “wash” oil off of waterfowl after an oil spill. For example, consider this series of simple alcohols. One example of amphipathic molecules are fatty acids. For example, because of these forces, water can flow up tubes within plants. This is yet another example of the way that water moderates temperature. Using this example we can generalize the process of neutralization as follows: A higher-stakes example of loss of pH regulation occurs in diabetic ketoacidosis. For example, a potato is full of starch, which is a complex carbohydrate that the potato plant uses to store energy. Cellulose is an example of a complex carbohydrate used in plants for structural support. This is a prime example of one of the central themes of biology: form affects function. As a final example, the specific carbohydrates attached to the surface of your red blood cells determine your “blood group” (A,B,O) and predict what kind of blood you can safely receive in a transfusion. Different carbohydrates, for example, are polymers made up of sugars (the monomers). For example, proteins will fold into unique shapes just to prevent non-polar groups from being in contact with water. For example, proteins will fold so that nonpolar groups are clustered together and are not in contact with water. For example, proteins will fold into unique shapes just to prevent non-polar groups from being in contact with water. This ring closure was an example of an alcohol functional group reacting with the carbon of the carbonyl functional group in either the aldehyde (aldose) or ketone (ketose) group. This is another example of bioselectivity. For example, glucose and galactose are epimers of each other.  Glyceraldehyde was chosen as the first carbohydrate to study because it provides another example of the bioselectivity of biological systems. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. Each is a form of carbohydrate storage and represents an example of a hetero-disaccharide, i.e.  Glycogen is another example of a homo-polysaccharide of glucose with a repeating structural unit of glucose. For example, the heme group in myoglobin (colored purple in the right image) is responsible for binding oxygen in muscles. For example, the heme group in myoglobin (colored gray in the right image) is not part of the protein chain, but fits within a pocket in the myoglobin protein. For example, the heme group in myoglobin (colored gray in the right image) is not part of the protein chain, but fits within a pocket in the myoglobin protein. For example: enzyme inhibitors are ligands that bind to and inhibit enzymes; antigens are ligands that are recognized by antibodies (which are proteins). Many enzyme names end with “-ase.” For example, the enzyme lactase is used to break down the sugar lactose, found in mammalian milk. Many enzyme names end with “-ase.” For example, the enzyme lactase is used to break down the sugar lactose, found in mammalian milk. An example of an enzyme that is involved in catabolism is lactase. Lactase is an example of an enzyme that breaks large molecules down into smaller ones. For example, shaking a bottle of oil and vinegar (acetic acid in water), such as in a salad dressing, results in the oil being dispersed as tiny droplets in the vinegar.  Previously, you explored how proteins interact with their ligands, using the example of myoglobin and oxygen. For example, your favorite book contains paper made of cellulose from trees. This is an example of the hydrophobic effect previously discussed. For example, DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose. For example, DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose. For example, the E. coli bacterium carries its genetic instructions in a DNA molecule that is more than 5 million nucleotides long. For example, you might call 12 cookies a dozen cookies. Cholesterol is a familiar example of a lipid that is not actually a fat. Cholesterol is a familiar example of a lipid that is not actually a fat. For example, they help keep aquatic birds and mammals dry because of their hydrophobic nature. For example, waxes cover the feathers of some aquatic birds to keep the feathers dry. For example, plants use a steroid called stigmasterol, while fungi use ergosterol. Eukaryotes comprise plant and animals, but also fungi (singular fungus, for example molds and mushrooms) as well as protists, a group of single-celled eukaryotes. This allows you to replace lost skin cells, for example. For example, to date more than 50 kinds of proteins have been found in the plasma membrane of red blood cells. For example, winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. Fungi, for example, use ergosterol. For example, winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. Fungi, for example, use ergosterol. For example, some bacteria live in the frozen Arctic Circle. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. The cholesterol was an example of a lipid, and is highly soluble in the nonpolar environment of the lipid bilayer. For example, if you scrape your knee, the cells in that area need to be replaced. For example, healthy human cells grown on a petri dish would stop growing when they filled the dish. Cigarettes, for example, contain carcinogens that can alter the DNA and disrupt proper regulation of the cell cycle. For example, if you scrape your knee, the cells in that area need to be replaced. For example, healthy human cells grown on a petri dish would stop growing when they filled the dish. Cigarettes, for example, contain carcinogens that can alter the DNA and disrupt proper regulation of the cell cycle. For example, in humans, the male gametes (sperm cells) are formed continuously from germ cells in the testes, starting in puberty. For example, in humans, the male gametes (sperm cells) are formed continuously from germ cells in the testes, starting in puberty. For example, males with Klinefelter syndrome have an extra X chromosome (XXY), and females with Turner syndrome have only one X chromosome (X_). For example, a homologous pair of chromosomes may have a gene for hair color. For example, human beings go through these stages of development: fetus, infant, child, youth, teenager, young adult, adult. For example, the phosphorylation of glucose is very unfavorable if inorganic phosphate is used as the source of phosphate. For example, in diabetes, the metabolism of glucose is incorrectly regulated. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . An example of an oxidation is the conversion of iron from its metallic state, Fe0, to its rusted form, Fe+3, by the loss of three electrons. The first example below shows a single-celled organism — an amoeba — using energy to move. The second example illustrates the chemical reaction resulting in urea, a molecule found in urine. The third example shows bioluminescence — the emission of light by living organisms; in this case, the aurelia aurita jelly fish. For example, yeasts that decompose fruit can switch between aerobic cellular respiration (used when oxygen is abundant) to a form of fermentation that produces ethanol (used when oxygen is depleted). For example, a buildup of lactic acid may cause stiffness in an overworked muscle. For example, yeasts that decompose fruit can switch between aerobic cellular respiration (used when oxygen is abundant) to a form of fermentation that produces ethanol (used when oxygen is depleted). For example, a buildup of lactic acid may cause stiffness in an overworked muscle. For example, complex carbohydrates are readily converted to glucose or similar sugars. For example, plant leaves are sealed with a layer of waxy material called cuticle. For example, plant leaves are sealed with a layer of waxy material called cuticle. For example, a red pigment absorbs green and blue wavelengths. For example, a red pigment absorbs green and blue wavelengths. Let’s look at an example of a metabolic pathway and explore one mechanism that regulates it. For example, sulfa antibiotics are competitive inhibitors of the bacterial pathway that produces folic acid, an essential molecule for nucleic acid synthesis. This is the example that you saw above with glycolysis. An example of the former is blood clotting, where inactive precursors of clotting enzymes become activated, in a cascade, by blood vessel damage. Similarly, many digestive enzymes are activated only when they reach their destination (for example, gastric fluid of low pH). For example, bacteria turn genes for digestive enzymes on and off depending on the nutrients that are available to them. An Example of a Linear Metabolic Pathway This pathway shows the production of the end product “D” from the starting substrate “A.” In this reaction, A is the substrate of enzyme 1, which produces B. An Example of a Branched Metabolic Pathway Each enzyme within the pathway is specific to one reaction. For example, if there is plenty of ATP in a cell, the cellular respiration pathway (which produces ATP as its final product) will slow down. When there is excess ATP (for example after eating a meal rich in fats and sugars), parts of the cellular respiration pathway go “in reverse” to provide building blocks for the anabolic reactions building up lipids and glycogen. For example, he crossed true-breeding plants that had yellow, round seeds with true-breeding plants that had green, wrinkled seeds. An example of linked traits in humans is human hair and skin color. In our example, we have highlighted a gene. In this example, the purple color may be due to an enzyme that produces a purple pigment. Then you combine the possible gametes with each other to see all possible combinations, as shown in this example. For example, genes can contain information required to make a protein. For example, protein enzymes in plants catalyze production of the pigments, resulting in flowers of different colors. In our example, different alleles of the pigment-producing gene can result in more or less pigment, and, consequently, in darker or light flower color. In the snapdragon example, the intermediate phenotype is pink. In the flower color example, this protein could be an enzyme involved in the synthesis of a pigment. Hydrangeas, for example, may be blue, pink, or purple, but they are never naturally orange. PKU is an example in which environmental factors can modify gene expression. Fore example, rice (pictured below) shows variation in shape and color of seeds/grains. For example, the E. coli bacterium carries its genetic instructions in a DNA molecule that contains more than five million nucleotides. For example, consider these two words: stable and tables. Consider this trait as an example that you want to understand on the molecular level. Consider this trait as an example that you want to understand on the molecular level. For example, pancreatic beta cells produce insulin when blood sugar levels are increased. For example, three bases may be deleted in a group corresponding to one existing codon. For example, three bases may be deleted in a group corresponding to one existing codon. At the end we discussed a real life example in which genes and environmental factors interact to produce an important health outcome (breast and ovarian cancer). At the end we discussed a real life example in which genes and environmental factors interact to produce an important health outcome (breast and ovarian cancer). For example, if an mRNA had three exons, 1, 2, and 3 in order, and two introns, the normal sequence of splicing would link exon 1 to exon 2 to exon 3. This is an example of a phenotype dependent on the interaction between genes and environment. For example, high-energy radiation causes double-stranded breaks in DNA that can lead to deletions. One example of such mutation is found in the regulatory region of the human LCT gene on chromosome 2. One example of epigenetic silencing in somatic cells is common to all female mammals. The E. coli genome, for example, is approximately 5 million nucleotides long. For example, to study a human disease caused by a malfunction in a specific protein, scientists need a large amount of the protein for experiments. For example, the gene encoding growth hormone (a protein) affects the height of an individual; in this case, height is the characteristic, and tall or short stature are the traits. For example, genes from other species are transferred into crop plants and livestock to provide them with desired traits. For example, the restriction enzyme EcoR1 was isolated from Escherichia coli. Using EcoR1 as an example, the enzyme cuts between the G and the A. In this module, you learned about an example that illustrates many of the basic procedures that are used in modern biotechnology. However, the host organism (which is bacteria in this example) often prefer certain codons over others, so the preferred codons must be used to optimize protein expression. As an example of how the components of an organ system work together, let’s look at the skeletal system. The pancreas, for example, has both digestive and endocrine functions, and the kidneys play a role in both the urinary and endocrine systems. For example, to bend your arm at the elbow, your biceps muscle contracts, and your triceps muscle relaxes. Humans, for example, can breathe, talk, digest food, process visual images, and move their bodies all at the same time. For example, the human digestive system functions through interactions of organs that include the esophagus, stomach, and small and large intestines to process food that a person eats. Disputes about what happened in the past can be evaluated by sifting through the available crime-scene evidence (fossils and genes, for example). In the example above, the “bleached” form of lizard has a known mutation in a pigmentation gene called Mc1r. In the lizard example, imagine a time when most lizards in the White Sands area had a darker color form. For example, disease organisms may shift to human hosts, evolve to evade vaccines, or evolve to resist drugs. For example, in an Aa person the red blood cells may sickle in response to being invaded by Plasmodium. In our first example of microevolution and infectious disease, we will explore the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), which causes Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). In biological terms, for example, individual people don't evolve, but the human race does. Let's look at a hypothetical example. This example of microevolution covers a few hundred years, but in organisms that have shorter generation times, like bacteria, microevolution can be observed on an even smaller time scale. For example, a population would always consist of people or of grizzly bears, but never of both people and grizzly bears. For example, breeding could occur if a human being carried dandelion pollen from Boston to Annapolis. The pea plant example only looks at one trait of the plants, seed color, but there are many other genes present in this population. Let's return now to our example of the Wisconsin foxes to see how genes and their environment might interact to drive the evolution of a population. In our fox example it is important to remember that the environment did not change the alleles of individual foxes. There is perhaps no better example of artificial selection than the domestic dog. For example, inbreeding among dalmatians has resulted in a tendency toward aggressive behavior. For example, virtually all eukaryote species have a gene in their mitochondria that codes for cytochrome C oxidase, an enzyme that is vital to the process of aerobic respiration. Therefore the features should be based in genes (not acquired through learning, for example). One classic example involves the skeletal structure of vertebrates. Each level is nested within the next higher level; all members of a genus, for example, are members of the same family, order, and so on. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, experimenters would predict that the control group subjects—those who did not receive the drug—would not be cured over the course of the study. For example, in a study to test a drug, the dependent variable might be the proportion of subjects that are cured at the end of the study. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, a high proportion of those in the experimental group would be cured or helped by the treatment, if the hypothesis is correct. For example, in a study to test a drug, one group might be given the drug and another group would not; the independent variable in this example would be whether patients were given the drug. Nutrient pollution, for example, is a global problem that harms the diversity of aquatic and some terrestrial communities. Plants are an example of producers. A variable may be a category to which a subject can be assigned (for example: male or female) or it may be measured precisely (for example: body mass). For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, a high proportion of those in the experimental group would be cured or helped by the treatment, if the hypothesis is correct. An example would be grass to grasshopper to rat to owl: An example would be genes that encode eye color - some encode blue eyes (one allele), while others encode brown, green or hazel eye colors (other alleles). The benzene ring is the best known example of an aromatic group. For example, in a study to test a drug, one group might be given the drug and another group would not; the independent variable in this example would be whether patients were given the drug. An example is a methy group -CH3. For example, you can buy organically grown tomatoes or clothes made from organically grown cotton. Nutrient pollution, for example, is a global problem that harms the diversity of aquatic and some terrestrial communities. Example: EcoR1 binds to the sequence GAATTC and cleaves between the G and the A. They are called oils and are commonly produced by plants; for example olive oil, corn oil, and canola oil. A variable may be a category to which a subject can be assigned (for example: male or female) or it may be measured precisely (for example: body mass). Blood is an example of a buffered solution. For example, water can be represented by any of the following structures: H-O-H and 3D representations. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, experimenters would predict that the control group subjects—those who did not receive the drug—would not be cured over the course of the study. For example, in a study to test a drug, the control and experimental groups would each contain subjects (people) of similar ages and similar numbers of men and women. For example, in a study to test a drug, the dependent variable might be the proportion of subjects that are cured at the end of the study. The benzene ring is the best known example of an aromatic group.

4. [u'cell', u'cells', u'celled']
  An image of a living mouse cell in culture is shown above. As the cell adheres to the bottom of the culture dish it spreads out exploring the local environment giving it the angular shape. The cell can move, utilize energy, and divide to produce new cells. During this course you will explore the fundamentals of how a cell is able to carry out each of these processes. Modern biology is about the molecular events that occur inside a cell: the making of proteins, the building of cellular structures, and the interaction of a cell with its environment. The course is organized into units covering the areas of basic biochemistry, cell biology, and molecular and cellular function. The first unit introduces the basic chemistry of a cell. To put the course in perspective, we begin by exploring the cell and the components of the cell called organelles. The focus of this course is to understand the components of the cell, how they interact with each other, how they are created, destroyed and how they regulate transport, growth and division of the cell. We will examine the controlled chemical environment a cell maintains and what restrictions this places on the types of chemical reactions it can perform. This background is vital to understanding key processes such as how a cell releases energy from glucose, makes and folds proteins, and goes through growth and cell division. Above is a caricature of a eukaryotic cell. Many of the cell components are hyper links that will provide you with an image showing these same structures in a living cell.  This exercise uses the Cell to let you test your knowledge of the functions of the organelles. Proteins are not only storage proteins, but can also act as hormone receptors as seen with the estrogen receptor and many serve as enzymes that catalyze processes in the cell.  Left alone, enzymes would deplete a cell of all the substrates. In other cases, there may be multiple uses for a substrate and depletion, by one enzyme, may be detrimental to the working of a cell. In some cases, such as the digestion of food, the enzyme needs to be functional in the gut but not in the cell. Thus, several types of regulations have evolved that the cell can use to control enzyme rate. A common way of regulating enzyme activity is by increasing or decreasing the amount of enzyme by regulation of the rates of synthesis in the cell. The concentration of this complex can be increased in two ways: i) either by increasing [S], which you explored on the previous page, or ii) by increasing the total amount of enzyme in the cell. The cell can use pH as a mechanism to control enzyme action. Enzymes used in digestion that destroy other proteins could be detrimental to a cell.  Left alone, enzymes would deplete a cell of all the substrates. In other cases, there may be multiple uses for a substrate and depletion, by one enzyme, may be detrimental to the working of a cell. In some cases, such as the digestion of food, the enzyme needs to be functional in the gut but not in the cell. Thus, several types of regulations have evolved that the cell can use to control enzyme rate. A common way of regulating enzyme activity is by increasing or decreasing the amount of enzyme by regulation of the rates of synthesis in the cell. The concentration of this complex can be increased in two ways: i) either by increasing [S], which you explored on the previous page, or ii) by increasing the total amount of enzyme in the cell. The cell can use pH as a mechanism to control enzyme action. Enzymes used in digestion that destroy other proteins could be detrimental to a cell. The direction of the equilibrium, either towards more complex or towards free reactants, depends primarily on the amount of free oxygen in the cell. Myoglobin supply is essentially constant in the cell since protein synthesis is relatively a much slower process. The direction of the equilibrium, either towards more complex or towards free reactants, depends primarily on the amount of free oxygen in the cell. Myoglobin supply is essentially constant in the cell since protein synthesis is relatively a much slower process. The direction of the equilibrium, either towards more complex or towards free reactants, depends primarily on the amount of free oxygen in the cell. Myoglobin supply is essentially constant in the cell since protein synthesis is relatively a much slower process. Likewise, proteins act as signal receptors by binding to signaling molecules, such as hormones, to propagate the signal into a cell. Protein-ligand interactions serve several important functions in the cell. The result in some cells is the commencement of cell division. If estrogen did not dissociate from the estrogen receptor then cell division could not be controlled and cancer could result. In some cases It is also possible to predict how a cell might alter physiological conditions to regulate that binding. The first two concepts (bonding and pH) dictate why molecules are soluble in the cell, in what part of the cell they are soluble, what charge molecules will carry and how that charge is controlled by pH. Throughout the course you will see how atoms of these elements are very important to the functioning of a cell. These elements represent over 95% of the mass of a cell. Throughout the course you will see how atoms of these elements are very important to the functioning of a cell. These elements represent over 95% of the mass of a cell. These bonds are all important in the functioning of a cell. The biological world is very ionic and the spheres of hydration are important in a cell because they maintain the separation of the many ions of the cell from each other. These bonds are all important in the functioning of a cell. The biological world is very ionic and the spheres of hydration are important in a cell because they maintain the separation of the many ions of the cell from each other. The buffering of pH plays an important role in the normal function of the cell. If the pH drops too low, or becomes too high, the cell can no longer function. The buffering of pH plays an important role in the normal function of the cell. If the pH drops too low, or becomes too high, the cell can no longer function.  Another example is the peptido-glycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium.  A third function for carbohydrates is that of cell recognition and signaling. This large number of different structures can therefore be used as unique signals for identification of individual cell types.  Another example is the peptido-glycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium.  A third function for carbohydrates is that of cell recognition and signaling. This large number of different structures can therefore be used as unique signals for identification of individual cell types. In addition, we will the explore the function of carbohydrates inside a cell.  Biological systems are selective and while it is possible to synthesize both of the glyceraldehyde enantiomers in the chemistry lab, a cell primarily produces and uses the D form of glyceraldehyde. This is dictated by the way in which molecules are selected and used in a cell. Every reaction in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme and these enzyme catalysts have the ability to discriminate between different structures.  Just as the cell can recognize the difference between D and L, the expectation for this course is that you are able to recognize the structures of the carbohydrate but it will not be necessary to know how to draw the structures. So far, we have discussed the major elements and functional groups that are important in the functioning of a cell. Together these elements and functional groups define the major properties of the four classes of macromolecules that make up a cell: carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and nucleic acids. So far, we have discussed the major elements and functional groups that are important in the functioning of a cell. Together these elements and functional groups define the major properties of the four classes of macromolecules that make up a cell: carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and nucleic acids. So far, we have discussed the major elements and functional groups that are important in the functioning of a cell. Together these elements and functional groups define the major properties of the four classes of macromolecules that make up a cell: carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and nucleic acids.  Cellulose plays a structural role as the key component of a plant cell wall. This hydrogen bonding adds to the rigidity of cellulose cell wall. Each cell type and each species of microorganism can display a unique identification on its surface to be used in cell recognition and to identify partners in cell-cell interactions. A unique hetero-polysaccharide produced by bacteria is the peptido-glycan that forms the basic structure of the bacterial cell wall. In this case there is a linear hetero-polysaccharide that acts much like the linear strands of cellulose in the plant cell wall. As seen in the illustration below, this means that the bacterial cell wall is fully connected by covalent bonds while the plant cell wall is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between hydroxyl groups on parallel strands.  Cellulose plays a structural role as the key component of a plant cell wall. This hydrogen bonding adds to the rigidity of cellulose cell wall. Each cell type and each species of microorganism can display a unique identification on its surface to be used in cell recognition and to identify partners in cell-cell interactions. A unique hetero-polysaccharide produced by bacteria is the peptido-glycan that forms the basic structure of the bacterial cell wall. In this case there is a linear hetero-polysaccharide that acts much like the linear strands of cellulose in the plant cell wall. As seen in the illustration below, this means that the bacterial cell wall is fully connected by covalent bonds while the plant cell wall is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between hydroxyl groups on parallel strands. Another example is the peptidoglycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium. There are two basic parts of the cell membrane. First there is the plasma membrane that surrounds the cell and creates a barrier that separates the cell contents from the outside environment. It selectively imports ions to control the water balance of the cell. The cell membrane also provides a mechanism for moving large molecules into and out of the cell. This membrane runs through out the cell as part of the endoplasmic reticulum and the golgi complex. Many organisms including plants, fungi, and bacteria also have cell walls. While these are essential for the integrity of these cells, we will focus on the cell membrane. The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. To keep the membrane fluid at physiological temperatures the cell alters the composition of the phospholipids. This helps maintain the fluid nature of the cell membrane without it becoming too liquid at body temperature. Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection.  As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. To keep the membrane fluid at physiological temperatures the cell alters the composition of the phospholipids. This helps maintain the fluid nature of the cell membrane without it becoming too liquid at body temperature. Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection.  As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. Cholesterol is a component of the cell membrane in animals and functions to moderate membrane fluidity because it restricts the motion of the fatty acid tails. The cell is composed of two distinctive environments: the hydrophilic aqueous cytoplasm and the hydrophobic lipid membranes. Phospholipids and steroids are the key components of cell membranes. Phospholipids serve a major function in the cells of all organisms: they form the phospholipid membranes that surround the cell and intracellular organelles such as the mitochondria. The cell membrane is a fluid, semi-permeable bilayer that separates the cell's contents from the environment, see animation below. This semi-permeable nature of the membrane allows the cell to maintain the composition of the cytoplasm independent of the external environment. The eukaryotc cell, a typical mammalian cell, has many compartments within the cell each surrounded by a lipid bilayer membrane. An example is the lysosome, a degradative organelle (membrane bound compartment within the cell) whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from the outside of the cell or from other compartments within the cell. This is a non-spontaneous process and requires the cell to do work to move the ions up-hill against the gradient. This active transport system moves three sodium ions out of the cell and two potassium ions into the cell, each against a gradient. The cell membrane creates a physical barrier between the interior and exterior of the cell. While facilitated diffusion and active transport account for a great deal of the specific uptake of molecules and ions needed by the cell, other sources of external matter can also be taken up by the cell. Other mechanisms also exist by which molecules are taken up by the cell but do not directly pass through the plasma membrane. In general endocytosis, a molecule or particle encounters the cell surface and randomly causes the membrane to create first a pit in the membrane, followed by a further invagination of the plasma membrane and finally the pinching off of the plasma membrane around the molecule or particle resulting in the formation of a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the asymmetry of the membrane would be apparent by the fact that the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior surface of the cell. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and ensure neither growth nor shrinking of the cell size. While not involving a specific receptor, the binding by the PTD to the cell surface reduces the concentration dependence for initiation of internalization. While facilitated diffusion and active transport account for a great deal of the specific uptake of molecules and ions needed by the cell, other sources of external matter can also be taken up by the cell. Other mechanisms also exist by which molecules are taken up by the cell but do not directly pass through the plasma membrane. In general endocytosis, a molecule or particle encounters the cell surface and randomly causes the membrane to create first a pit in the membrane, followed by a further invagination of the plasma membrane and finally the pinching off of the plasma membrane around the molecule or particle resulting in the formation of a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the asymmetry of the membrane would be apparent by the fact that the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior of the cell. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and ensure neither growth nor shrinking of the cell size. While not involving a specific receptor, the binding by the PTD to the cell surface reduces the concentration dependence for initiation of internalization. Cells continually encounter changes in their external ionic environment and will spontaneously respond by attempting to equalize the concentration of ions on the inside and outside of the cell. Isotonic, hypertonic and hypotonic refer to the relative concentration of the solute (small molecules) in the extracellular (outside) space surrounding the cell relative to the solute concentration inside the cell. high water potential]) in the extracellular space than inside the cell. Because the water (the solvent) can more easily pass through the membrane than can the solute (ions), the net flow is spontaneous in the direction of the solvent (water) moving from its higher concentration (high water potential) outside the cell to the inside of the cell. low water potential]) outside the cell than inside the cell. The introduction of a cell or liposome to the solution places a barrier to the molecules. The introduction of a cell or liposome into the solution places a barrier to the molecules. Most of these small molecules are metabolites or ions used in the general metabolism of the cell. The cell also needs to transduce information across its membrane. These signals may tell the cell to divide or prevent division and promote growth. Adenylate cyclase generates the internal signal that is then interpreted by the cell. Most of these small molecules are metabolites or ions used in the general metabolism of the cell. The cell also needs to transduce information across its membrane. These signals may tell the cell to divide or prevent division and promote growth. Adenylate cyclase generates the internal signal that is then interpreted by the cell. The cell membrane provides a semi-permeable barrier between the inside and the outside of the cell. This barrier provides control for transport of nutrients, ions and signals between the highly variable outside environment and the relatively well-defined interior of the cell. This unit of the course will explore the ways in which molecules can pass across the membrane (diffusion and active transport), can be transported into the cell without passing across the membrane (endocytosis), and can send signals for actions within the cell without actually passing across the membrane themselves (signal transduction). A uniport is a protein that transports a single molecule across the membrane of the cell. It contains the information necessary to code for the RNA and proteins used by a cell or virus to replicate and produce the next generation. Thus for repeated replication of the chromosomes during multiple cell divisions, this means that the chromosomes are shortened with each cycle of replication. How long the process of replication takes is also important to the cell. One of the most important processes that a cell performs before it can divide is to faithfully replicate its chromosome. There are three distinctly different RNA products that result from transcription based on their function within the cell. The products of transcription, rRNA, tRNA and mRNA, are each used for different functions within the cell but are all essential to protein synthesis. It is essential that biochemical pathways are regulated, otherwise the cell would waste resources. It is essential that biochemical pathways are regulated, otherwise the cell would waste resources. It is essential that biochemical pathways are regulated, otherwise the cell would waste resources. It is essential that biochemical pathways are regulated, otherwise the cell would waste resources.  It is useful to have a quantitative way to predict the direction of a pathway given the current environment in the cell. There are thousands of different enzymes in any cell. Although there is a large number of enzyme catalyzed reactions in a cell, the following list describes most of the activities that are found in metabolic pathways. Under these conditions, the cell runs out of NAD+ and glycolysis will halt and the cell can no longer produce ATP. Glucose from the outside of the cell is transported across the cell membrane by a multi-subunit protein called the glucose transporter. Consequently, spontaneous flow of glucose into the cell can only occur if the concentration of glucose is lower in the cell than outside the cell. The "product" of the reaction is glucose inside the cell and the "reactant" is glucose outside the cell. If the concentration of glucose outside the cell is higher than the concentration inside the cell, then the Gibbs free energy is negative (the ln of a number less than one is negative) and glucose will spontaneously enter the cell. If the concentration of glucose inside the cell exceeds the concentration outside then >0 and the reverse reaction, the net movement of glucose out of the cell, will be spontaneous. The focus here is to understand how the entry of glucose into the cell is spontaneous, even when the levels of glucose in the blood can drop to low values. How is it possible to maintain a negative Gibbs free energy for glucose transport into the cell, even if there are low levels of glucose outside the cell? Instructions: Compare the behavior of the two simulations to see how the Hexose Kinase molecule changes the concentration of glucose inside and outside of the cell. Under these conditions, the cell runs out of NAD+ and glycolysis will halt and the cell can no longer produce ATP. Glucose from the outside of the cell is transported across the cell membrane by a multi-subunit protein called the glucose transporter. Consequently, spontaneous flow of glucose into the cell can only occur if the concentration of glucose is lower in the cell than outside the cell. The "product" of the reaction is glucose inside the cell and the "reactant" is glucose outside the cell. If the concentration of glucose outside the cell is higher than the concentration inside the cell, then the Gibbs free energy is negative (the ln of a number less than one is negative) and glucose will spontaneously enter the cell. If the concentration of glucose inside the cell exceeds the concentration outside then >0 and the reverse reaction, the net movement of glucose out of the cell, will be spontaneous. The focus here is to understand how the entry of glucose into the cell is spontaneous, even when the levels of glucose in the blood can drop to low values. How is it possible to maintain a negative Gibbs free energy for glucose transport into the cell, even if there are low levels of glucose outside the cell? Instructions: Compare the behavior of the two simulations to see how the Hexose Kinase molecule changes the concentration of glucose inside and outside of the cell. In contrast, insulin instructs the liver cell to store the excess glucose in the blood. Rather they bind to membrane receptors on the surface of the cell and evoke a conformational, or allosteric, change in the receptor, transmitting the signal to the inside of the cell. The phosphorylation of enzymes during periods of glucose demand or the dephosphorylation of enzymes when there is surplus glucose results in the correct biological response of the liver cell. The phosphorylation levels of proteins within the cell are directly controlled by response to hormones, as discussed above.  The coordinated regulation of glycolysis and gluconeogenesis dovetails perfectly with the direct hormonal control of glycogen metabolism to insure the liver cell responds appropriately to hormonal signals, i.e. Consequently, high levels of AMP and ADP indicate that the cell needs to activate glycolysis to restore the levels of ATP. Cell Examples include a single bacterial cell, a plant grown from a single seed, or you—as an individual human being. When discussing cell structure, the word nucleus refers to the central organelle of the eukaryotic cell. It consists of the cell’s DNA enclosed in a double-layered membrane and can be thought of as the “command center” of the eukaryotic cell. When an organism or cell releases (or excretes) matter, the excreted matter is considered waste for that organism. In contrast to the chaos of the outside world, the interior of a cell is a remarkably constant environment. If the cell’s surroundings change quickly, conditions inside the cell may be temporarily disturbed. Each cell has a huge library of thousands of recipes in its DNA. But most of the recipes don’t get used in any given cell. Chemical signals in each cell are passed to its descendants and to nearby cells. As a result, DNA is turned “on” or “off” in each cell, leading to different shapes and structures. Specialized cell types form. In contrast to the extreme variability of the outside world, the interior of a cell is a remarkably constant environment. If the cell’s surroundings change quickly, conditions inside the cell may be temporarily disturbed. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so chemistry is important for biology. Cell biologists are helping to find cures and treatments for cancer; since the 1970s there have been huge improvements in survival rates for many common cancers. The cell in the center is undergoing mitosis, the process of cell division. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell. The Cell: The cell in the center is undergoing mitosis, the process of cell division. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so chemistry is important for biology. Cell biologists are helping to find cures and treatments for cancer; since the 1970s there have been huge improvements in survival rates for many common cancers. Antibiotics have a very specific way of working called their “mode of action.” Penicillin works by interfering with cell wall construction in bacterial cells. The cell wall is a somewhat rigid “shell” that encloses a bacterial cell. In the presence of penicillin, a bacterium’s cell wall cannot be built (or rebuilt) and the cell wall eventually collapses, killing the cell. Cell walls are not present around human cells, or those of any other animal. Some organisms consist of just one cell (they are unicellular), whereas others consist of many cells (we are multicellular). A cell is essentially a tiny droplet of fluid and molecules enclosed by a fluid “skin” or membrane. The cells of eukaryotes, by contrast, include membrane-bound organelles: compartments inside the cell that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. One of these organelles is the nucleus; it encloses the DNA within the cell. The cell will be studied in more detail as the class progresses. You may want to preview The Cell Unit. Cell biologists are currently researching the causes and symptoms of various types of cancer, enabling doctors to find cures and treatments. In Unit 4: The Cell, you will learn how the unique structures that make up a cell enable it to maintain homeostasis and carry out the varied functions of life. We will focus on the ways different types of cells reproduce themselves in Unit 6: Cell Division. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell. The Cell: The cell in the center is undergoing mitosis, the process of cell division. Cell biologists are currently researching the causes and symptoms of various types of cancers, enabling doctors to find cures and treatments for cancer. Cell biologists are currently researching the causes and symptoms of various types of cancers and this research enables doctors to find cures and treatments for cancer. The Cell: Cell Division: The Cell: Cell Division: When macromolecules are used as building blocks to form a membrane-bound space, you have a cell, which is the fundamental unit of life. The cells of eukaryotes, by contrast, include membrane-bound organelles: compartments inside the cell that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. An organism is a cell or group of cells that lives and reproduces as a single unit. Some organisms consist of just one cell (they are unicellular) and include prokaryotes such as bacteria. Antibiotics have a very specific way of working, which is called their “mode of action.” Penicillin works by interfering with cell wall construction in bacterial cells. The cell wall is a somewhat rigid “shell” that encloses a bacterial cell. In the presence of penicillin, a bacterium’s cell wall cannot be built (or rebuilt) and the cell wall eventually collapses, killing the cell. Cell walls are not present around human cells, or those of any other animal. The cell is the smallest unit that displays all of these characteristics. In order to reproduce, a virus must infect a host cell and hijack the host cell’s machinery. In other words, a virus cannot reproduce without using the tools of another cell. When macromolecules are used as building blocks to form a membrane-bound sphere, you have a cell, which is the fundamental unit of life. The cells of eukaryotes, by contrast, include membrane-bound organelles: compartments inside the cell that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. One of these organelles is the nucleus; it encloses the DNA within the cell. Some organisms consist of just one cell and include unicellular organisms such as bacteria and protists. This module will introduce the hierarchy of living matter from the cell to human organisms. The cell is the first level of organization that is alive and therefore the cell is considered the fundamental unit of life. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to understand something of the chemical composition of that signal, so chemistry is important for biology. Cell biologists are helping to find cures and treatments for cancer so that in the future cancer will not be a deadly disease. This policy required scientists essentially to halt the harvesting of hESCs for research and use only existing stem cell lines in their research. For more information, see “ Stem Cell Basics. In Stem Cell Information” and “Embryonic Stem Cell Research: A Decade of Debate from Bush to Obama.” When the pH of a cell or organism changes, proteins can change shape, resulting in changed function. In this unit, you learned about the four classes of biological macromolecules that form the fundamental building blocks of the cell. In this unit, you learned about the contents of a cell from a molecular point of view. When the pH of a cell or organism changes, proteins can change shape, resulting in changed function. In this unit, you learned about the four classes of biological macromolecules that form the building blocks of the cell — the cell from a molecular point of view. Organic macromolecules that carry out two main functions in the cell: storage of genetic information and synthesis of proteins. When discussing cell structure, the word nucleus refers to the central organelle of the eukaryotic cell. It consists of the cell’s DNA enclosed in a double-layered membrane and can be thought of as the “command center” of the eukaryotic cell. Cellulose, which is a major component of cell walls, is one of the largest contributors to dietary fiber. Even within a single microscopic cell, there is room for not just billions, but trillions or even 100s of trillions of atoms. Even within a single microscopic cell, there is room for not just billions, but trillions or even hundreds of trillions of atoms. These elements represent more than 95% of the mass of a cell. Throughout the course you will see how atoms of these elements are very important to the functioning of a cell. The cell is the fundamental unit of life; therefore, you might think that your study of biology should begin with the cell. In fact, before we can understand a complex structure like a cell, we must learn about the building blocks from which cells are made. The cell is the fundamental unit of life; therefore, you might think that your study of biology should begin with the cell. In fact, before we can understand a complex structure like a cell, we must learn about the building blocks from which cells are made. The cell is the fundamental unit of life; therefore, you might think that your study of biology should begin with the cell. In fact, before you can truly understand how a cell functions, you must understand the building blocks from which cells are made. Homeostasis refers to the ability of an organism (or cell) to maintain stable internal conditions despite constantly changing environmental conditions. Within plant cell walls, cellulose molecules form chains that provide high tensile strength. In some plants, cellulose is also included in a secondary cell wall, which adds rigidity and waterproofing. Carbohydrates also play a role in cell signaling and recognition within multicellular organisms. Carbohydrates also play a role in cell signaling and recognition within multicellular organisms. However, chitin also plays a minor role in the cell structure of some fungi, algae, and yeasts. Cellulose is an important structural carbohydrate that provides support within plant cell walls. Cellulose, mentioned above as a major component of plant cell walls, is one of the largest contributors of dietary fiber.  Biological systems are selective and while it is possible to synthesize both of the glyceraldehyde enantiomers in the chemistry lab, a cell primarily produces and uses the D form of glyceraldehyde. This is dictated by the way in which molecules are selected and used in a cell. Every reaction in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme and these enzyme catalysts have the ability to discriminate between different structures.  Just as the cell can recognize the difference between D and L, the expectation for this course is that you are able to recognize the structures of the carbohydrate but it will not be necessary to know how to draw the structures.  Another example is the peptido-glycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium.  A third function for carbohydrates is that of cell recognition and signaling. This large number of different structures can therefore be used as unique signals for identification of individual cell types.  Cellulose plays a structural role as the key component of a plant cell wall. This hydrogen bonding adds to the rigidity of cellulose cell wall. Each cell type and each species of microorganism can display a unique identification on its surface to be used in cell recognition and to identify partners in cell-cell interactions. A unique hetero-polysaccharide produced by bacteria is the peptido-glycan that forms the basic structure of the bacterial cell wall. In this case there is a linear hetero-polysaccharide that acts much like the linear strands of cellulose in the plant cell wall. As seen in the illustration below, this means that the bacterial cell wall is fully connected by covalent bonds while the plant cell wall is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between hydroxyl groups on parallel strands.  Proteins can catalyze chemical reactions by accelerating the rate at which chemical reactions take place in the cell. Proteins can help move substances in and out of the cell. These proteins can be embedded in the cell membrane, where they act as transporters. The cellular cytoskeleton consists of proteins that form long fibrous scaffolding in cells that helps the cell maintain its shape. Proteins are not only storage proteins, but can also act as hormone receptors as seen with the estrogen receptor and many serve as enzymes that catalyze processes in the cell. Nucleic acids are molecules made up of repeating units of nucleotides that direct cellular activities such as cell division and protein synthesis. Nucleic acids are macromolecules that carry out two main functions in the cell: storage of genetic information and synthesis of proteins. Regardless of where DNA is stored in the cell, it contains instructions for building proteins.  Both a nerve cell (left) and a red blood cell (right) develop from cells that have identical DNA, but the expression of different genes leads to structural and functional differences between the cells Nucleic acids are macromolecules that carry out two main functions in the cell: storage of genetic information and synthesis of proteins. Lipids perform many different functions in a cell. Lipids are also the building blocks of many hormones and are an important constituent of the cell’s plasma membrane. Cholesterol is also used by animals to maintain the proper consistency of the cell membrane, which is the structure that surrounds every cell. Lipoproteins that carry cholesterol to the cell for use are called low-density lipoproteins (or LDL). Phospholipids, together with other molecules in smaller quantities, form membranes that surround the cell and intracellular organelles such as mitochondria. The cell membrane is a fluid, semipermeable bilayer that separates the cell's contents from the environment. Most polar substances are stopped by a cell membrane, except perhaps for small polar compounds like the one carbon alcohol, methanol and water. The inability of Na+ and K+ to pass through the membrane allows the cell to regulation the concentrations of these ions on the inside or outside of the cell. Phospholipids form the bulk of cell membranes, which define the cell. In this unit, we learned about the cell, which is the fundamental unit of all living systems. Because they are both eukaryotes, both cell types have nuclei. For example, plant cells have chloroplasts and a cell wall. All cells have a cell membrane that defines the boundary between the cell’s interior and the external environment. The cell membrane has a unique chemical structure that enables the passage of particles into and out of the cell. Those biomolecules build up the different structures of the cell. In this unit we will start exploring a new level of complexity in biological systems: the cell. In this module we will cover briefly the currently accepted hypothesis of how cells evolved and discuss the pillars of the cell theory. Living cells grow and divide according to a series of timed events called the cell cycle. Cells also maintain continuous communication with their surroundings while keeping their individuality; this is facilitated by the particular structure and function of the cell membrane. The cell is the first level of complexity able to maintain homeostasis, and it is the unique structure of the cell that enables this critical function. In this unit, you will learn about the cell and all the parts that make it functional. You will also focus on the cell membrane, which is the structure that surrounds the cell and separates its internal environment from the external environment. In a 1665 publication called Micrographia, experimental scientist, Robert Hooke, coined the term “cell” for the box-like structures he observed when viewing cork tissue through a lens. They proposed the Unified Cell Theory, which states that all living things are composed of one or more cells, and that the cell is the basic unit of life. You, for instance, are made of approximately 60 trillion cells, all of which originated from one single cell, the fertilized cell produced when an egg from your mother was fertilized by the sperm cell from your father. The currently accepted tenets for the Cell Theory are: Cells are categorized into two types: Prokaryotes are small, simple, single-cell organisms; bacteria are the most prevalent kind. Eukaryotic cells are about 15 times wider than the typical prokaryotic cell, and up to 1,000 times greater in volume. These parts assemble into various structures to perform specific functions within the cell. Some structures are the same for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell types and some structures are different. Then, later in this module, you will learn about the structures and characteristics of each cell type in more detail. There are several parts (referred to as structures) common to all cells regardless of the cell type. All cells are surrounded by a cell membrane. The cell membrane provides a barrier between the interior and exterior of the cell and it regulates the flow of substances in and out of the cell. All cells also have cytoplasm, which is the fluid that occupies the space inside the cell. All cells also contain DNA, which is often called the “master molecule” of the cell because it contains the instructions for synthesizing all of the cell’s proteins. Ribosomes are the molecular machines that use the instructions contained in the DNA to build all the proteins needed by the cell. Check your understanding of cell structures with the following activity and then learn more about the structures and characteristics of each cell type on the next page. Cells are categorized into two types: Prokaryotes are small, simple, single-cell organisms; bacteria are the most prevalent kind. Eukaryotic cells are about 15 times wider than the typical prokaryotic cell, and up to 1,000 times greater in volume. These parts assemble into various structures to perform specific functions within the cell. Some structures are the same for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell types and some structures are different. Then, later in this module, you will learn about the structures and characteristics of each cell type in more detail. There are several parts (referred to as structures) common to all cells regardless of the cell type. All cells are surrounded by a cell membrane. The cell membrane provides a barrier between the interior and exterior of the cell and it regulates the flow of substances in and out of the cell. All cells also have cytoplasm, which is the fluid that occupies the space inside the cell. All cells also contain DNA, which is often called the “master molecule” of the cell because it contains the instructions for synthesizing all of the cell’s proteins. Ribosomes are the molecular machines that use the instructions contained in the DNA to build all the proteins needed by the cell. Check your understanding of cell structures with the following activity and then learn more about the structures and characteristics of each cell type on the next page. Individual cells are able to form tissues by participating in cell-to-cell attachments with neighboring cells. In a 1665 publication called Micrographia, experimental scientist Robert Hooke coined the term “cell” for the box-like structures he observed when viewing cork tissue through a lens. They proposed the Unified Cell Theory, which states that all living things are composed of one or more cells, and that the cell is the basic unit of life. You, for instance, are made of approximately 60 trillion cells, all of which originated from one single cell, the fertilized cell produced when an egg from your mother was fertilized by the sperm cell from your father. The currently accepted tenets of Cell Theory are: Modern cell theorists assert that all functions essential to life occur within the cell and that during cell division the cell contains and transmits to the next generation the information necessary to conduct and regulate cell functioning. In a 1665 publication called Micrographia, experimental scientist Robert Hooke coined the term “cell” for the box-like structures he observed when viewing cork tissue through a lens. They proposed the Unified Cell Theory, which states that all living things are composed of one or more cells, and that the cell is the basic unit of life. You, for instance, are made of approximately 60 trillion cells, all of which originated from one single cell, the fertilized cell produced when an egg from your mother was fertilized by the sperm cell from your father. The currently accepted tenets of Cell Theory are: Modern cell theorists assert that all functions essential to life occur within the cell and that during cell division the cell contains and transmits to the next generation the information necessary to conduct and regulate cell functioning. Every cell on Earth belongs to one of two categories: Both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells have a cell or plasma membrane, which surrounds and defines the inner environment of the cell. The cell membrane is made of a phospholipid bilayer containing a variety of proteins and additional components. The cell membrane is responsible for mediating interactions between the cell and its environment. The Cell Membrane module contains a more detailed discussion of the structure and function of the cell membrane. Prokaryotes also have a cell membrane and cytoplasm. Every cell on Earth belongs to one of two categories: Both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells have a cell or plasma membrane, which surrounds and defines the inner environment of the cell. The cell membrane is made of a phospholipid bilayer containing a variety of proteins and additional components. The cell membrane is responsible for mediating interactions between the cell and its environment. The Cell Membrane module contains a more detailed discussion of the structure and function of the cell membrane. Prokaryotes also have a cell membrane and cytoplasm. One simplified but useful analogy of a cell is that of a factory. When the cell is dividing, chromatin condenses and becomes visible as chromosomes. Most organelles are found in the cytoplasm, which is the substance found between the nucleus and the cell membrane. Eventually, they became fully integrated within the larger host cell. However, they cannot live outside the eukaryotic cell. The smooth ER (without ribosomes) can have different functions depending on the cell type, but it is often the site for synthesis of lipids. The Golgi apparatus is the packaging and shipping center of the cell, where structural components are delivered to different parts of cells. The cytoskeleton is formed by a series of protein filaments, and is both a scaffold for the cell structure and a framework for many activities from cell movement to cell division. Among the protein filaments that form the cytoskeleton, actin has a prominent role in cell movement, maintaining cell shape and connection to other cells, as well as intracellular transport. A barrel-shaped structure only present in animal cells is the centriole, which plays a role in the spatial organization of the cell and cell division. Microtubules form also appendages such as the flagellum of the sperm cell and the cilia of the cells of the respiratory system. Below is a diagram of an eukaryotic (animal) cell. Many of the cell components are hyper links that will provide you with an image showing these same structures in a living cell. All eukaryotes have a nucleus, but they can also have other cell structures in common. In the cell, proteins and other cellular components are put together, or assembled, by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a series of sacs and tubes. The smooth ER (without ribosomes) can have different functions depending on the cell type, but it is often the site for the synthesis of lipids. The Golgi apparatus is the packaging and shipping center of the cell, where the proteins that were built by the ER assembly line are delivered to different parts of the cell, or in multicellular organisms, to different parts of the body. The cytoskeleton is formed by a series of protein filaments, and is both a scaffold for the cell structure and a framework for many cellular activities, including movement and cell division. In the cell, the cytoskeleton is made up of many different protein filaments. One important filament is actin, which has a prominent role in cell movement, maintaining cell shape, and connection to other cells, as well as intracellular transport. A barrel-shaped structure only present in animal cells is the centriole, which plays a role in the spatial organization of the cell and cell division. Microtubules also form appendages such as the flagellum of the sperm cell and the cilia of the cells of the respiratory system. Below is a diagram of a eukaryotic animal cell. You will see: (a) the location of the selected organelle highlighted in the cell diagram; (b) a microscopic photograph of the structure in a cell; and (c) the function or purpose of the organelle described in the text box. Take a few moments to explore the location of structures in a eukaryotic animal cell and review their functions. One simplified but useful analogy of a cell is that of a factory. The various cell types differ in the arrangement, number, and structure of organelles. Additionally, the number of organelles of each type in a given cell varies depending on the function of the cell. Because a cell is a protein-producing factory, we can take a closer look at the different organelles and see how they function toward this goal. The nucleus is the control center of the cell and it stores the DNA, which contains the instructions for how to build all the protein products required by the cell. Most organelles, including ribosomes (after they are built in the nucleus), are found in the cytoplasm, which is the substance found between the nucleus and the cell membrane (number eight in the cell factory diagram). All eukaryotes have a nucleus, but they can also have other cell structures in common. In the cell, proteins and other cellular components are put together, or assembled, by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a series of sacs and tubes. The smooth ER (without ribosomes) can have different functions depending on the cell type, but it is often the site for the synthesis of lipids. The Golgi apparatus is the packaging and shipping center of the cell, where the proteins that were built by the ER assembly line are delivered to different parts of the cell, or in multicellular organisms, to different parts of the body. The cytoskeleton is formed by a series of protein filaments, and is both a scaffold for the cell structure and a framework for many cellular activities, including movement and cell division. In the cell, the cytoskeleton is made up of many different protein filaments. One important filament is actin, which has a prominent role in cell movement, maintaining cell shape, and connection to other cells, as well as intracellular transport. A barrel-shaped structure only present in animal cells is the centriole, which plays a role in the spatial organization of the cell and cell division. Microtubules also form appendages such as the flagellum of the sperm cell and the cilia of the cells of the respiratory system. Below is a diagram of a eukaryotic animal cell. You will see: (a) the location of the selected organelle highlighted in the cell diagram; (b) a microscopic photograph of the structure in a cell; and (c) the function or purpose of the organelle described in the text box. Take a few moments to explore the location of structures in a eukaryotic animal cell and review their functions. One simplified but useful analogy of a cell is that of a factory. The various cell types differ in the arrangement, number, and structure of organelles. Additionally, the number of organelles of each type in a given cell varies depending on the function of the cell. Because a cell is a protein-producing factory, we can take a closer look at the different organelles and see how they function toward this goal. The nucleus is the control center of the cell and it stores the DNA, which contains the instructions for how to build all the protein products required by the cell. Most organelles, including ribosomes (after they are built in the nucleus), are found in the cytoplasm, which is the substance found between the nucleus and the cell membrane (number eight in the cell factory diagram). Plants have chloroplasts and a rigid cell wall. The cell wall is a porous structure that protects, supports, and gives shape to the cell. The plant cell wall is different from that of prokaryotes, and it is mainly formed by polysaccharides, particularly cellulose. Plant cells can also have a central vacuole, which can be a place of storage, degradation, defense, and even physical support for the cell. Even though plants have a cell wall, this does not mean they don’t have a cell membrane. All cells have a cell membrane. Some, like plant cells, just have a cell wall as well. The structures shown above are parts of a “generic” eukaryotic cell. While most eukaryotic cells will present these structures, variations occur depending on the function of the cell. As you recall from learning about the cell theory, every cell in your body comes from the division of a previously existing cell. Eukaryotic cells grow and reproduce through a series of phases called the cell cycle. During interphase the cell increases its mass (G1 phase), duplicates its DNA (S phase), and prepares for cell division (G2 phase). During the mitotic phase (M phase), the cell divides its nucleus (mitosis) and its cytoplasm (cytokinesis) and two identical daughter cells are produced. In multicellular organisms, the cells dedicated to sexual reproduction (gametes) are produced by a different type of cell division called meiosis. Cell division is a carefully regulated process. There are “check-points” between phases, in which the cell “self-checks.” Through molecular interactions, the cell makes sure that it is ready to divide; for example, it checks to see that its DNA has not been damaged. If all criteria are met, the cell moves forward through the cell cycle. Cancer cells, on the other hand, have lost the normal cell cycle controls, and therefore can divide indefinitely. In this module, you learned about the characteristics that all cells have in common, like the cell membrane. In the next module, you’ll take a closer look at the cell membrane, which is the structure that defines a cell by separating its internal environment from the external environment. The cell membrane, also called the plasma membrane, is the boundary of the cell; it determines what enters and exits the cell, and it is how the cell interacts with its environment. This may give you a feel for the fluid nature of a cell's membrane. Because of its fluidity and its variety, biologists currently describe the cell membrane as a fluid mosaic. Many nonpolar molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and small hydrocarbons can flow easily through cell membranes. Most polar substances are stopped by a cell membrane, except perhaps for small polar compounds like one-carbon alcohol, methanol, and water. The inability of Na+ and K+ to pass through the membrane allows the cell to regulate the concentrations of these ions on the inside or outside of the cell. The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. Cholesterol plays a key role in keeping animal cell membranes fluid across a range of temperatures. Other sterols play a similar role in the cell membranes of plants, fungi, and even some prokaryotes. Cholesterol plays a key role in keeping animal cell membranes fluid across a range of temperatures. Other sterols play a similar role in the cell membranes of plants, fungi, and even some prokaryotes. The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. These short carbohydrates play a role in giving a cell its identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types. For example, a membrane protein that transports materials into or out of the cell needs to completely span the membrane. On the other hand, a protein that binds the cell to another can simply be attached to the outer surface of the membrane. The composition of the plasma membrane varies according to the type and function of the cell. The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. These short carbohydrates play a role in giving a cell its identity (i.e., distinguishing self from nonself) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types. For example, a membrane protein that transports materials into or out of the cell needs to completely span the membrane. On the other hand, a protein that binds the cell to another can simply be attached to the outer surface of the membrane. While both bacteria and archaea are prokaryotes (both groups lack nuclei), the archaeans have some interesting structural characteristics in the cell membrane that have unique functional significance. The cell membranes found in both eukaryotic and bacterial cells consist of a phospholipid bilayer that separates the internal environment of the cell from its external environment and regulates the materials that pass in and out of the cell. This enables the cell to maintain internal homeostasis, regardless of changing external conditions. You already know that cell membranes can be structurally different, to enable different functions. How can their cell membranes stay intact in such conditions? The cell membrane must have a unique structure to withstand these conditions. You will explore characteristics of the archaean cell membrane in the following activities. First, you need to orient yourself to the phospholipid found in a bacterial cell. The cell membrane determines what enters and exits the cell, and it is how the cell interacts with its environment. As you have already learned, the cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer structure that provides a semipermeable barrier between the inside and the outside of the cell. In this module, you will explore the following three ways molecular substances enter and exit the cell: This module will discuss how the cell membrane controls the transport of nutrients, ions and signals between the highly variable outside environment and the relatively well-defined interior of the cell. Molecular substances enter and exit the cell so that: nutrients and waste can be exchanged; the cell can perform its function; and, when required, the cell can send appropriate signals to other cells. One way molecules passively move through the cell membrane is a process called simple diffusion. The cell membrane provides a semi-permeable barrier between the inside and the outside of the cell. This barrier provides control for transport of nutrients, ions, and signals between the highly variable outside environment and the relatively well-defined interior of the cell. The cell membrane provides a semipermeable barrier between the inside and the outside of the cell. This characteristic of the membrane, known as selective permeability, acts as a filter that allows only selected substances that are needed for the survival and functioning of the cell in and out. The size, polarity, and charge of a substance will determine whether or not the substance can cross the cell membrane by diffusion. Note that specialized transport proteins in certain cell membranes can provide a channel for the water, greatly increasing its rate of crossing the membrane. Shown below is a different cell with the same extracellular concentrations of solute as the cell in the previous question. This cell has a channel instead of a carrier protein to transport the molecule. The eukaryotic cell has many compartments within the cell each surrounded by a membrane. An example is the lysosome, an organelle whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from the outside of the cell or from other compartments within the cell. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. The eukaryotic cell has many compartments within the cell each surrounded by a membrane. An example is the lysosome, an organelle whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from the outside of the cell or from other compartments within the cell. The eukaryotic cell has many compartments within it, each surrounded by a membrane. An example is the lysosome, an organelle whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from outside the cell or from other compartments within the cell. This is a nonspontaneous process and requires the cell to do work to move the ions "uphill" against the concentration gradient. The animation that follows illustrates an example of an active transporter that uses energy from the molecule ATP to transport sodium (Na+) ions out of the cell and potassium (K+) ions into the cell.  Three Na+ ions from inside the cell bind to the transporter. This allows the Na+ to cross the membrane and exit the cell, against its concentration gradient. Two K+ ions from outside the cell bind to the transporter. The transporter changes shape again, bringing the K+ into the cell. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. The eukaryotic cell has many compartments within it, each surrounded by a membrane. An example is the lysosome, an organelle whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from outside the cell or from other compartments within the cell. This is a nonspontaneous process and requires the cell to do work to move the ions "uphill" against the concentration gradient. The animation that follows illustrates an example of an active transporter that uses energy from the molecule ATP to transport sodium (Na+) ions out of the cell and potassium (K+) ions into the cell.  Three Na+ ions from inside the cell bind to the transporter. This allows the Na+ to cross the membrane and exit the cell, against its concentration gradient. Two K+ ions from outside the cell bind to the transporter. The transporter changes shape again, bringing the K+ into the cell. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. CFTR is a channel that allows for the passage of chloride ions (Cl-) into and out of the cell. It allows for the movement of Cl- into or out of a cell. While facilitated diffusion and active transport account for a great deal of the specific uptake of molecules and ions needed by the cell, other sources of external matter can also be taken up by the cell. Other mechanisms also exist by which molecules are taken up by the cell but do not directly pass through the plasma membrane. In this case the particle first binds to a membrane protein receptor on the surface of the cell and the binding which induces the engulfment of the material bound to the membrane. In general, during endocytosis, a molecule or particle encounters the cell surface and randomly causes the membrane to create first a pit in the membrane, followed by a further invagination of the plasma membrane and finally the pinching off of the plasma membrane around the molecule or particle resulting in the formation of a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior surface of the cell. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and ensure neither growth nor shrinking of the cell size. The bacteria are recognized by proteins (called receptors) on the surface of the immune cell. The immune cell (also known as a phagocytic cell) will then engulf the bacterial cells using the process of endocytosis. Through the processes of endocytosis and exocytosis, materials can be taken up or ejected in bulk, without passing through the cell's plasma membrane. In endocytosis, material is engulfed within an infolding of the plasma membrane and then brought into the cell within a cytoplasmic vesicle. To begin endocytosis, a particle encounters the cell surface and produces a dimple or pit in the membrane. The pit deepens, invaginates further, and finally pinches off to form a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior surface of the cell. The resulting molecules may be released to the cytoplasm for use within the cell. In this case, the particle first binds to a membrane protein receptor on the surface of the cell. Binding of the target particle induces the cell to engulf it. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and keeps the cell's size constant. Disease-causing bacteria are recognized by proteins called receptors on the surface of the immune cell. The phagocytic immune cell will then engulf the bacterial cells (phagocytosis). Through the processes of endocytosis and exocytosis, materials can be taken up or ejected in bulk, without passing through the cell's plasma membrane. In endocytosis, material is engulfed within an infolding of the plasma membrane and then brought into the cell within a cytoplasmic vesicle. To begin endocytosis, a particle encounters the cell surface and produces a dimple or pit in the membrane. The pit deepens, invaginates further, and finally pinches off to form a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior surface of the cell. The resulting molecules may be released to the cytoplasm for use within the cell. In this case, the particle first binds to a membrane protein receptor on the surface of the cell. Binding of the target particle induces the cell to engulf it. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and keeps the cell's size constant. Disease-causing bacteria are recognized by proteins called receptors on the surface of the immune cell. The phagocytic immune cell will then engulf the bacterial cells (phagocytosis). What will happen if there is a strong concentration gradient between a cell's interior and the fluid outside? You might think that solutes will flow into our out of the cell until the solute concentrations are equal across the membrane. However, not all molecules can pass through the cell membrane. The terms isotonic, hypertonic, and hypotonic refer to the concentration of solutes outside the cell relative to the solute concentration inside the cell. In an isotonic solution, solutes and water are equally concentrated within and outside the cell. The cell is bathed in a solution with a solute concentration that is similar to its own cytoplasm. A hypotonic solution has a low solute concentration and a high concentration of water compared to the cell's cytoplasm. If a cell is placed in a hypotonic solution, it will tend to gain water. A hypertonic solution has a high solute concentration (lower water concentration) compared to the cell cytoplasm. If a cell is placed in such a solution, water tends to flow spontaneously out of the cell. Cells with a cell wall (such as plant and bacterial cells) respond somewhat differently to these situations. The cell wall will keep these cell from bursting in a hypotonic solution. In a hypotonic solution, the pressure created by the rigidity of the cell wall forces water back out of the cell. In hypertonic solutions, the plasma membrane tears as it shrivels away from the cell wall. Membranes are the defining characteristic of a cell in the same way that your skin distinguishes what is "you" from what is "not you." We’ll explore transport of things in and out of the cell in more detail in the next module. The ability to carefully regulate substances moving in and out of the cell is crucial for maintaining cellular homeostasis. There are many ways items can get in and out of the cell. Growing from a single fertilized egg to an adult organism requires many rounds of cell division. Before cell division, a cell must copy its genome so that each new daughter cell receives a full set of DNA.  Prophase and Prometaphase: The cell prepares to sort the chromosomes. Metaphase: Chromosomes are moved to the center of the cell. Each new cell gets one of these nuclei during the process of cytokinesis. At the end of mitosis and cytokinesis, each new daughter cell should have the identical genetic makeup of the parent cell. Mitosis of a single diploid cell will result in two diploid cells with identical genomes, unless a mutation or other error occurred. Mitosis of a haploid cell will result in two identical haploid cells. Let’s begin with a diploid cell that is 2N = 4. This cell has two copies of each of its two chromosomes. During the S phase of interphase, the cell replicates its DNA. Centrosomes are used to identify the poles of the cell during the division process; these poles determine where the chromosomes will be sent. Perform the following activity to build a cell ready for mitosis. Let’s begin with a diploid cell that is 2N = 4. This cell has two copies of each of its two chromosomes. During the S phase of interphase, the cell replicates its DNA. Centrosomes are used to identify the poles of the cell during the division process; these poles determine where the chromosomes will be sent. Therefore, it is essential that the cell has produced all necessary proteins prior to the start of this process. This causes the individual chromosomes to move to opposite poles of the cell. This causes the cell to elongate. By the end of anaphase, each pole of the cell contains an identical set of chromosomes. However, the two nuclei are still in a single cell. Animal cells divide when proteins pinch in the center of the cell until it separates into two. Plant cells divide when new cell wall components are laid down in the center of the cell. This is called the cell plate. The centrioles begin to move to the opposite poles of the cell. Metaphase is so named because the chromosomes line up in the middle of the cell. The kinetochore microtubules are used to orient the chromosomes in the center of the cell. Therefore, it is essential that the cell has produced all necessary proteins prior to the start of this process. This causes the individual chromosomes to move to opposite poles of the cell. This causes the cell to elongate. By the end of anaphase, each pole of the cell contains an identical set of chromosomes. However, the two nuclei are still in a single cell. Animal cells divide when proteins pinch in the center of the cell until it separates into two. Plant cells divide when new cell wall components are laid down in the center of the cell. This is called the cell plate. Cell Characteristics at Phases of Mitosis The centrioles begin to move to the opposite poles of the cell. Metaphase is so named because the chromosomes line up in the middle of the cell. The kinetochore microtubules are used to orient the chromosomes in the center of the cell. Therefore, it is essential that the cell has produced all necessary proteins prior to the start of this process. The centrioles begin to move to the opposite poles of the cell. Activity#2: DIGT –Cell-region-function The cell cycle is highly regulated. There are many checkpoints that are used to determine if the cell should or should not continue through the stages of the cell cycle. Many different environmental and internal signals are involved in determining whether or not a cell will complete division. A healthy cell has many genes that produce proteins involved in the process of regulating cell division. Some of these genes produce proteins that encourage cell division. These proteins would be produced under circumstances where the cell should divide. Other genes produce proteins that inhibit cell division. Numerous research projects in the past and present are investigating cell cycle genes. For example, genes that inhibit cell division are classified as tumor suppressor genes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not divide uncontrollably because these genes will stop the process. Genes that encourage cell division are called proto-oncogenes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not receive the message to divide unless it should be dividing. Cancer is the result of numerous mutations in multiple genes involved in regulating the cell cycle. The cell cycle is highly regulated. There are many checkpoints that are used to determine if the cell should or should not continue through the stages of the cell cycle. Many different environmental and internal signals are involved in determining whether or not a cell will complete division. A healthy cell has many genes that produce proteins involved in the process of regulating cell division. Some of these genes produce proteins that encourage cell division. These proteins would be produced under circumstances where the cell should divide. Other genes produce proteins that inhibit cell division. Numerous research projects in the past and present are investigating cell cycle genes. For example, genes that inhibit cell division are classified as tumor suppressor genes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not divide uncontrollably because these genes will stop the process. Genes that encourage cell division are called proto-oncogenes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not receive the message to divide unless it should be dividing. Cancer is the result of numerous mutations in multiple genes involved in regulating the cell cycle. Cell Cycle Checkpoints Metaphase is so named because the chromosomes line up in the middle of the cell. The kinetochore microtubules are used to orient the chromosomes in the center of the cell. This causes the individual chromosomes to move to opposite poles of the cell. This causes the cell to elongate. By the end of anaphase, each pole of the cell contains an identical set of chromosomes. However, the two nuclei are still in a single cell. Animal cells divide when proteins pinch in the center of the cell until it separates into two. Plant cells divide when new cell wall components are laid down in the center of the cell. This is called the cell plate. During asexual reproduction, all of the genes in a cell are passed to its daughter cells. This means that the resulting cells are clones or identical copies of the parental cell. Meiosis consists of two consecutive cell divisions, called Meiosis I and Meiosis II. Meiosis I is often referred to as the reduction division, because it is during this stage that the number of chromosomes in the parent cell are divided in half. During Anaphase I, homologous pairs are pulled apart, and they move toward the poles of the cell. In order to avoid the duplication of the chromosome number, gametes are formed through a special form of cell division, meiosis, which halves the number of chromosomes. The fusion of the gametes during fertilization restores the diploid chromosome number in the first cell of the new individual, the zygote. During asexual reproduction, all of the genes in a cell are passed to its daughter cells. This means that the resulting cells are clones, or identical copies of the parental cell. In order to avoid the duplication of the chromosome number, gametes are formed through a special form of cell division, meiosis, which halves the number of chromosomes. The fusion of the gametes during fertilization restores the diploid chromosome number in the first cell of the new individual, the zygote. Meiosis consists of two consecutive cell divisions, called meiosis I and meiosis II. It is during this stage that the number of chromosomes in the parent cell are divided in half because homologous chromosomes are separated. One homologue with its sister chromatid go to one daughter cell while the other homologue with its sister chromatid go to the other daughter cell. During anaphase I, homologous pairs are pulled apart, and they move toward the poles of the cell. The presence of a sister chromatid for each chromosome at the start of Meiosis II means that each cell contains too much DNA. However, which goes to which cell is a random process. Aneuploidy is a chromosomal abnormality characterized by an abnormal number of chromosomes in a cell. In cell replication, chromosomes are moved to new locations. If a cell is going to reproduce, more DNA is needed. During mitosis, one cell divides into two cells containing identical genetic material. This requires twice as much DNA, because there must be one complete set for each daughter cell. During cell division, each chromatid moves to one of the two daughter cells. After the S stage of the cell cycle, these chromosomes have replicated. The cell keeps the matching pairs attached to keep track of which chromosomes need to be sent to opposite poles. A diploid cell has two copies of each chromosome — one copy from each parent. In the discussion about the cell cycle, you learned that cells undergo different phases, during which they grow, duplicate their genetic material, and then divide. In single celled organisms, cell division results in two new individuals. Cell division in multicellular organisms is more complex. When somatic cells divide, they go through the process of mitosis, which is a type of cell division that results in two identical daughter cells. Meiosis, on the other hand, is a type of cell division that prepares an organism for sexual reproduction. When two gametes from different individuals combine, a unique new cell is produced, called a zygote. This single cell then goes through the process of mitosis to grow into a new individual. You might be wondering how a single cell can grow into a complex adult organism containing many different cell types simply by mitosis. This happens through a process known as differentiation, in which certain genes found in a cell’s nucleus are turned on or off. Even though every single somatic cell in your body contains identical DNA, these cells were able to differentiate into specific cell types (such as blood cell, liver cells, etc.) As you remember from the cell structure module, chromosomes are the condensed form of chromatin, the combination of DNA and proteins that fill the eukaryotic nucleus. Examine the following image of the 23 pairs of chromosomes found in a single somatic cell of a normal human. In the discussion about the cell cycle, you learned that cells undergo different phases, during which they grow, duplicate their genetic material, and then divide. In unicellular species, cell division results in the reproduction of the entire organism. However, cell division in multicellular species can serve two main purposes. This cell divided rapidly to produce a mass of genetically identical cells. These identical cells then differentiated into specific cell types (such as blood cell, liver cells, etc.) [The term "germ cell" used here should not to be confused with the common term “germ” meaning infectuous microorganisms.] Mitosis and meiosis are the agents of cell division and growth; their role in human growth is summarized in the diagram below. The word diploid describes the number of complete chromosome sets contained within a cell. Each cell in a diploid organism has two sets of chromosomes, one set from each parent. In somatic cells, each newly formed daughter cell needs to have both copies of these chromosomes. A cell that is 2N = 6 has 6 total chromosomes. This cell is diploid (2N) because it has 2 sets of chromosomes. Each parent would have given this cell 3 chromosomes; one parent donating the chromosomes seen in the top row, the other donating the chromosomes seen in the bottom row. In single-celled organisms, cell division results in two new individuals. Cell division in multicellular organisms is more complex. When somatic cells divide, they go through the process of mitosis, which is a type of cell division that results in two identical daughter cells. Meiosis, on the other hand, is a type of cell division that prepares an organism for sexual reproduction. When two gametes from different individuals combine, a unique new cell is produced, called a zygote. This single cell then goes through the process of mitosis to grow into a new individual. You might be wondering how a single cell can grow into a complex adult organism containing many different cell types simply by mitosis. This happens through a process known as differentiation, in which certain genes found in a cell’s nucleus are turned on or off. Even though every single somatic cell in your body contains identical DNA, these cells were able to differentiate into specific cell types (such as blood cell, liver cells, etc.) This information includes the directions that tell a cell how to make proteins. It allows the DNA to be condensed into organized bundles (chromosomes) that can easily be moved around the cell. This is quite amazing when you realize that this must fit into a cell so small that it cannot be seen with the naked eye. Examine the following image of the 23 pairs of chromosomes found in a single somatic cell of a normal human. A cell that is 2N = 6 has 6 total chromosomes. This cell is diploid (2N) because it has two sets of chromosomes. Each parent would have given this cell three chromosomes — one parent donating the chromosomes seen in the top row, the other donating the chromosomes seen in the bottom row. Cell division (mitosis and meiosis) sorts the genetic material (DNA) of a cell. Each newly formed daughter cell must receive identical information; therefore the DNA in a cell must be copied before cell division begins. The cell packages the DNA so that it can be sorted between the new cells. The cell cycle is the "life cycle" of a cell. It is the set of stages that a cell goes through during its lifetime. Together, these three stages of the cell cycle are called interphase. The events that occur during mitosis (M) and cytokinesis stages are different, depending upon the type of cell. Notice in the diagram above that we start with one cell on the left side. This is called the parent cell. The parent cell goes through the five stages of development in this order — G1, S, G2, M, and cytokinesis. Each of the new cells is called a daughter cell. Notice that the parent cell no longer exists—but the parent cell did not die. Rather, the contents of the parent cell have been split into two new cells. Each of the new cells contains a portion of the original parent cell. Previously, we compared the cell cycle to the phases of human development. The end of the cell cycle, however, results in the formation of new cells. In the diagram "Overview of the Cell Cycle" above, look closely at the parent cell and the two daughter cells. In addition, the new cells undergo the same development-and-division process that their parental cell did. For these two reasons, we call this the cell cycle, and draw it like a circle. Cells do the same thing through the cell cycle. The following diagram shows the cell cycle in circular form. In this unit, you will learn about another major cell process — cell division, or cell reproduction. The same principle applies in cell reproduction—making new cells that closely resemble the original cell. Cell reproduction is a complex process that involves many intricate, highly regulated steps. Cell reproduction is important for three reasons: In cells, it ensures the inheritance of genetic information from parent cell to offspring cell. Meiosis is a process of reductive cell division that produces haploid (1N) cells from diploid (2N) cells. By the end of meiosis, a single diploid cell has divided into four haploid cells. There are checkpoints during the cell cycle that regulate whether or not a cell goes through mitosis. There are checkpoints during the cell cycle that regulate whether or not a cell goes through mitosis. In "The Cell" unit, you learned about the different structures that make up a cell. At this point, you may wonder why the cell has to break down complex molecules in order to build them up again. Both are polymers of glucose, but they have different structures, and an animal cell cannot readily store or access starch. Technically, metabolic pathways are ordered sets of chemical reactions that occur within a cell to modify an initial molecule to form another product; enzymes catalyze (or increase) the rate of reaction. Metabolic pathways are catabolic (break-down molecules) or anabolic (synthesize or combine molecules) and result in molecular products which can be used by the cell immediately, used to initiate another chemical reaction, or stored in the cell. And sometimes it can be used to do work, such as movement of cellular machinery to power the active transport of materials across cell membranes. Similarly, ATP can transfer energy to specialized transport proteins embedded in the cell membrane and enable materials to be pumped in or out of the cell, against their concentration gradients (active transport). You also learned about the structure of the cell and some of the processes that take place in it. All metabolic pathways are regulated such that they are only active when the products of the pathway are required by the cell. All metabolic pathways are regulated such that they are only active when the products of the pathway are required by the cell. You also learned about the structure of the cell and some of the processes that take place in it. All metabolic pathways are regulated such that they are only active when the products of the pathway are required by the cell. Under these conditions, the cell runs out of NAD+ and glycolysis will halt and the cell can no longer produce ATP. Glucose from the outside of the cell is transported across the cell membrane by a multi-subunit protein called the glucose transporter. Consequently, spontaneous flow of glucose into the cell can only occur if the concentration of glucose is lower in the cell than outside the cell. The "product" of the reaction is glucose inside the cell and the "reactant" is glucose outside the cell. If the concentration of glucose outside the cell is higher than the concentration inside the cell, then the Gibbs free energy is negative (the ln of a number less than one is negative) and glucose will spontaneously enter the cell. If the concentration of glucose inside the cell exceeds the concentration outside then >0 and the reverse reaction, the net movement of glucose out of the cell, will be spontaneous. The focus here is to understand how the entry of glucose into the cell is spontaneous, even when the levels of glucose in the blood can drop to low values. How is it possible to maintain a negative Gibbs free energy for glucose transport into the cell, even if there are low levels of glucose outside the cell? Instructions: Compare the behavior of the two simulations to see how the Hexose Kinase molecule changes the concentration of glucose inside and outside of the cell. These molecules have the ability to accept and donate electrons resulting in the ability to shuttle (i.e., transport) electrons around the cell. Although there are many other catabolic reactions occurring in any cell, cellular respiration supplies the vast majority of ATP molecules required for cellular work in aerobic organisms. Similarly, different types of food molecules may “feed in” to cell respiration at specific junctions in the process. The first step of respiration is glycolysis which happens in the cytosol (cytoplasm) of a cell. You may want to review the Cell Structures page. Their cells are equipped with pigments to absorb light, and they absorb water and other nutrients directly across the cell membrane. The thick cell wall that allows the tube cells to function without collapsing also provides the plant with structural stability. Their cells are equipped with pigments to absorb light, and they absorb water and other nutrients directly across the cell membrane. The thick cell wall that allows the tube cells to function without collapsing also provides the plant with structural stability. The cell structures module discussed these structures. Similarly, pathways are influenced by the availability of the starting materials, the activity of each enzyme in the pathway, and the concentration of product already present in the cell. The images below (A, B, and C) represent the activity of the pathway at three different ATP levels in the cell: Among the main pathways of the cell are photosynthesis and cellular respiration, although there are a variety of alternative pathways such as fermentation. A huge diversity of enzymes is required to run the metabolic reactions necessary to maintain even a single cell. Each pathway is regulated to ensure the optimal use of resources and to maintain the health of the cell. The net effect in a healthy cell is the maintenance of homeostasis. Stockpiles of raw materials, intermediates, and finished products are maintained at optimal levels, and the chemistry of the cell cytosol is also regulated, as are extracellular fluids. Many metabolic pathways are reversible, which means that certain chemical reactions can go “either way,” depending on the needs of the cell. Many metabolic pathways are reversible, which means that certain chemical reactions can go “either way,” depending on the needs of the cell. Therefore, it takes work to keep conditions stable in a cell. In the cell or inside a body, countless dynamic processes are running at once. Substances that inhibit enzymes in a central pathway can have deadly effects for the cell or organism. This cell contains a pair of homologous chromosomes. Answer the following questions, and then, in the activity below, drag the cell that depicts the diploid parent cell after the synthesis phase into the box. After interphase, this cell is now ready to enter meiosis. Drag two cells that depict the cell after meiosis I into the boxes below. Drag four cells that depict the cell after Meiosis II into the boxes below. In the Cell Division unit, you learned that cells pass on a complete set of genetic information (contained in the DNA), which is transmitted from parent cells to daughter cells. In The Cell unit component structures of the cell were discussed. The chromosomes of a cell can be visualized using a process that takes a picture of the cell during mitosis, when chromosomes are easily visible. This condition is called “trisomy 21” because the cell has three ("tri") of these chromosomes instead of the usual two. Drag the two cells from the choices on the right that would depict this cell after Meiosis I, if nondisjunction occurs. Drag the four cells from the choices on the right that would depict this cell after Meiosis II, if the process occurs normally in the cell on the left and nondisjunction occurs in the cell on the right. Some of them are related to disorders such as sickle cell anemia, hemophilia, Tay-Sachs disease, and Down syndrome, to name a few. The heterozygotes will be carriers, so while they carry the defective allele (and sometimes even express it, as in the sickle cell trait), they phenotypically do not present the full disorder. As you remember from the Meiosis module, of the 23 pairs of chromosomes found in a human somatic cell, 22 are autosomes, and the 23rd pair are sex chromosomes. Another example of codominance is sickle cell anemia and sickle cell trait. In sickle cell anemia, hemoglobin — the protein that transports oxygen in the blood — is defective, giving the red blood cells a characteristic “sickled” appearance. Patients homozygous for the defective allele have sickle cell anemia. That condition is called sickle cell trait, where the individuals will present many red blood cells that become sickled under conditions of extreme physical exertion or low atmospheric oxygen. Interestingly, the sickle cell trait protects against malaria infection, and therefore remains prevalent in Sub-Saharan Africa, where malaria is endemic. Thus for repeated replication of the chromosomes during multiple cell divisions, this means that the chromosomes are shortened with each cycle of replication. How long the process of replication takes is also important to the cell. This ensures that both daughter cells inherit the complete set of genetic information from the parent cell. This process occurs during the S phase of the cell cycle, so by the time the cell enters the mitotic phase, there are two copies of the DNA molecule. This process occurs during the S phase of the cell cycle, so by the time the cell enters the mitotic phase, there are two copies of the DNA molecule. A cell that is preparing to divide will replicate its DNA, using a variety of enzymes working in concert. A cell that is preparing to divide will replicate its DNA, using a variety of enzymes working in concert. There are three distinctly different RNA products that result from transcription based on their function within the cell. The flow of information in a cell is described by the central dogma of molecular biology. The flow of information in a cell is described by the central dogma of molecular biology. Weightlifting increases muscle mass because it increases the production of proteins in the muscle cell. Multiple proteins expressed at specific levels at specific times in the cell determine the phenotype. This leads to a disease called sickle cell anemia in many of those who inherit the mutation. Sickle Cell Sequence This leads to a disease called sickle cell anemia in many of those who inherit the mutation. This mutation caused a disease called sickle cell anemia. Sickle Cell Sequence How does the cell do this during translation? Some ribosomes are attached to membranes; these ribosomes translate proteins destined to be inserted into the membrane or secreted outside the cell. How does the cell do this during translation? Some ribosomes are attached to membranes; these ribosomes translate proteins destined to be inserted into the membrane or secreted outside the cell. The products of transcription, rRNA, tRNA and mRNA, are each used for different functions within the cell but are all essential to protein synthesis. We will consider how gene expression can be regulated in the cell by interactions with other genes and environment. These proteins activate or inhibit transcription, depending on the signals from within the cell or from the environment. These proteins activate or inhibit transcription, depending on the signals from within the cell or from the environment. Recall that at the molecular and cellular levels, phenotype depends on the molecules produced by the cell. The methylation pattern can be preserved during DNA replication, so the daughter cells will have the same methylation pattern as the parent cell. This is because cells that inactivate the X chromosome with the black allele will express the orange allele, and after multiple cell divisions, a patch of orange fur will result. Although this is a relatively small genome, the physical length of the DNA is longer than the length of the bacterial cell. The shape of the chromosomes changes throughout the cell cycle. For example, when a cell needs to divide, DNA is further compacted by the addition of scaffolding proteins that help divide copies of the chromosomes equally. The most compact shape of the chromosomes can be observed during cell division. Operons allow the cell to control gene expression based upon environmental conditions, such as nutrient availability. This information is “read” by the cell to produce, first RNA, and then a protein, during a process called gene expression. The bacterial cell provides the protein synthesizing machinery so that the mRNA can be translated to a protein. The bacteria are grown to a high cell density, and then lactose is added to induce the production of human growth hormone. The normal biological function of restriction endonucleases is to protect the bacterial species from viruses by digesting the viral DNA as it enters the cell.  Sequences involved in maintaining the plasmid in the cell. This ensures that when it is placed into a bacterial host cell, it will be successfully replicated. An on/off switch is important because the production of growth hormone can interfere with cell division and the production of the growth hormone should be off until a sufficient number of cells are obtained. Every cell needs to take in nutrients and get rid of waste products. This is accomplished via processes that exchange molecules across the cell membrane. Only a single cell thick, the walls of the alveoli allow the oxygen in air to diffuse into the blood, and the cardiovascular system carries it to each cell in the body.  Carbon dioxide, a waste product of cell metabolism, also diffuses through the alveolar walls, but in the opposite direction, from the blood to the airways. They are composed of muscle fibers with a single nucleus in each cell and are uninucleate. Skeletal muscles are made of long cylinder shaped cells called muscle fibers, which have many nuclei within each cell. Single-celled organisms can absorb nutrients and oxygen directly from the environment into the cells, where they are used to support basic cell functions. You are beginning to appreciate that each cell and organism is a complex and highly integrated unit. How does a cell maintain homeostasis? The most famous and arguably the most important is the sickle cell allele. People homozygous for the sickle-cell allele suffer from sickle cell anemia. Sickle cell anemia is caused by a recessive allele (we will call it “a”). This will lead to the death of the newly invaded red blood cell, and the parasites will die with it. HIV has special enzymes to help it make copies of itself within the host cell. Every cell has ribosomes, but each organism’s ribosomes are built according to a slightly different set of specifications. When discussing cell structure, the word nucleus refers to the central organelle of the eukaryotic cell. It consists of the cell’s DNA enclosed in a double-layered membrane and can be thought of as the “command center” of the eukaryotic cell. Examples include a single bacterial cell, a plant grown from a single seed, or you—as an individual human being. A unicellular organizm lacking certain complex cell features, such as a membrane-bound nucleus and gene introns. The result of DNA replication is that the daughter cells produced in cell division have the same DNA as the original cell. The movement of materials into the cytoplasm of a cell via vesicles or vacuoles. A type of cell that has a membrane-enclosed nucleus and other membrane-enclosed structures (called organelles) such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, cytoskeleton, and the Golgi apparatus. The movement of materials out of the cytoplasm of a cell via membranous vesicles or vacuoles. (plural flagella) - A long whip-like projection used in moving the cell from one place to another. A cell may have one or more flagella. A haploid, sex cell (egg or sperm) produced from germ cells that have undergone meiosis. When two gametes join in fertilization the resulting zygote is a complete diploid cell. Refers to two chromosomes that are a matched pair in a diploid cell. The stage of the cell cycle when division (mitosis) does not occur. During interphase, the cell grows, acquires nutrients, and replicates both its chromosomes as well as its organelles. An image of the chromosomes of a cell in metaphase where the chromosomes are arranged in pairs by centromere position and size. A type of cell division in which a single, diploid germ cell is divided into four, haploid gamete cells. A stage within the mitosis phase of cell division (also known as cell reproduction). Anaphase starts when sister chromatids separate from each other and ends when each set of separated, sister chromatids arrives at the opposite poles of the cell. This is a stage of mitosis where the sister chromatids connected by centromeres are lined up along the plane of the cell's center (called the metaphase plate). One type of fiber that makes up the cytoskeleton of a eukaryotic cell. Microtubules aide in cell structure and movement and are also responsible for moving the chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis. mitochondria) - the powerhouse of eukaryotic cell; the organelle whose primary function is to perform cellular respiration, to convert chemical energy into a form that can be used directly by the cell -- Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP). Enclosed by two concentric membranes, it is where most of the cell's ATP is made. A type of cellular division in which a single, diploid, somatic cell is divided into two genetically identical daughter cells. Mitosis along with cytokinesis compose the mitotic (M) phase of the cell cycle. The phase in which the cell first divides its nucleus and then the cytoplasm. Organic macromolecules, built from nucleotides, that carry out two main functions in the cell: storage of genetic information and synthesis of proteins. When discussing cell structure, the word nucleus refers to the central organelle of the eukaryotic cell. It consists of the cell’s DNA enclosed in a double-layered membrane and can be thought of as the “command center” of the eukaryotic cell. Examples include a single bacterial cell, a plant grown from a single seed, or you—as an individual human being. A condition due to the presence of a plasmid in a cell that contains a gene that encodes a protein that inactivates an antibiotic. Chemically, the plasma membrane (also called the cell membrane) is a double layer of phospholipids (phospholipid bilayer) in which proteins, and sometimes sterols, are embedded. A type of cell (also called prokaryotes) lacking a nucleus and other membrane-bound organelles. In prophase, the nucleus is broken down, the chromosomes (duplicated during the S phase of the cell cycle) condense, and the mitotic spindles form. A property of the cell membrane wherein only certain molecules or ions can cross the membrane by diffusion. In this way the cell can maintain homeostasis by controlling what enters and exits the cell. One of two identical copies of a chromosome duplicated during the S phase of the cell cycle. Any nonreproductive cell found in multicellular organisms. That is, any cell except a germ cell or gametes (sperm and egg cells) found in a muticellular organism. The most familiar type of animal sterol is cholesterol which builds steroid hormones, are sources for vitamins D and K, and helps maintain cell membrane consistency. In telophase, new nuclear envelopes form around the separated chromosomes at each pole of the cell, the chromosomes unfold back into chromatin, nucleoli reappear, and the cell continues to elongate. A membrane protein that helps move substances across a cell membrane. A membranous sac in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells used to isolate and transport materials in a cell. The newly formed diploid cell that is produced when two haploid gametes unite. Bacterial cell walls are mainly built of peptidoglycan, although they may also contain lipidic molecules. Among eukaryotes, plants and fungi possess cell walls, made of cellulose and chitin, respectively. Cholesterol has many function: used to build steroid hormones; precursor to vitamins D and K; some may be converted to bile salts facilitating the absorption of fats by the digestive system; and, used by animals to maintain the proper consistency of cell membranes. The term chromatin is used to refer to the extended form taken by the chromosomes when a eukaryotic cell is not dividing. Chromosomes are found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell and in the nucleoid region of a prokaryotic cell. (plural: cilia) A short hair-like appendage on the cell surface. It functions to move the cell from one place to another; or, to move fluids and particles across the cell surface. The division of the cytoplasm of a cell at the end of mitosis to form two separate daughter cells. In animals cells, this occurs through the pinching of the membrane at the center of the parental cell while in plants, this occurs through the formation of a cell plate as new cell wall forms to separate the daughter cells. The substance that fills the inside contents of a cell between the plasma membrane and the nucleus. Contains a semifluid medium, composed mainly of water, and organelles (organelles are present only if it is a eukaryotic cell). Cellulose, which is a major component of cell walls, is one of the largest contributors to dietary fiber. A unicellular organizm lacking certain complex cell features, such as a membrane-bound nucleus and gene introns. A unicellular organizm lacking certain complex cell features, such as a membrane-bound nucleus and gene introns.

5. [u'life chemical reactions', u'organization', u'organized']
  To meet the speed of life, chemical reactions in cells are sped up by enzyme catalysts. Thus, understanding behavior and structure of elements is important for understanding life.  Water is the solvent of life on Earth. It has several properties that contribute to its suitability to support life as we know it. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. How genomes of variable sizes can be totally replicated within the appropriate life cycle time of the cell is a significant challenge. While we know that the life-cycles of eukaryotic cells are extremely variable, the S-phase, the period of time during the eukaryotic life-cycle when DNA is replicated, typically last 8 hours. Biology is a science focused on life. In the past, life was recognized in animals and plants but microscopic life forms were unknown. Today, our definition of life centers on the cell. This structure is the basic unit of organization for all life forms, large and small. In addition to being made of cells, known life grows using raw materials and energy, reproduces using DNA as its genetic material, and senses and responds to changes in the external environment. Viruses, because they depend on cells for their reproduction, do not fully meet this definition of “life.” Knowledge of bacteria and their cell biology has allowed major advances in public health and medicine. Life itself is an emergent property: when atoms and molecules are organized in a particular way, a living (biotic) cell is generated that is capable of growth and reproduction. Biology is a science focused on life. In the past, life was recognized in animals and plants but microscopic life forms were unknown. Today, our definition of life centers on the cell. This structure is the basic unit of organization for all life forms, large and small. In addition to being made of cells, life grows using raw materials and energy, reproduces using DNA as its genetic material, and senses and responds to changes in the external environment. Viruses, because they depend on cells for their reproduction, do not fully meet this definition of “life.” Knowledge of bacteria and their cell biology has allowed major advances in public health and medicine. The study of biology, the science of life, takes us through both time and space. Each level of “life” has unique emergent properties that arise from complex interactions at lower levels. Even life itself is an emergent property.  A life form that cannot be seen with the naked eye; also called a microbe. Microorganisms include bacteria, many single-celled eukaryotes (plants, animals, fungi, and small creatures called protists), and even some multicellular life forms.  A protein that speeds up the rate of chemical reactions that support life.  The scientific study of life. All areas on, within, and around the planet Earth that are capable of supporting life. These recurrent concepts will continually appear as we delve deeper into the scientific study of life. Life’s components are interconnected and interdependent. Evolutionary processes explain both the unity and adaptive diversity of life. Life is much the same. At levels from the individual to the biosphere, life is interconnected. Your cells are specialized and your life requires a massive team effort. Recall that enzymes will lose their function and many of the chemical reactions of life will not work if cell conditions change too much. It describes how life stands in one place despite many changes in the surrounding world. As we just now considered, reproduction passes characteristics from parents to offspring and maintains the continuity of life. Biologists look at the entire range of life on the planet and see the same pattern. evolution is about how and why life changes over time. A formal definition might be that evolution is a theory of how and why life changes in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time. According to evolutionary thinking, life forms are similar because of their shared ancestry. Trace this process back in time, and it is reasonable to suppose that all life forms inherited DNA and many other features from a long-ago common ancestor. Evolutionary biologists are thoughtful individuals and have different ways they deal with the “big questions” of life and meaning. But they are unified in their appreciation for the power of evolutionary theory to explain and predict life’s observable and verifiable features. Evolution is a scientific theory that explains how and why life changes over time. Evolution provides the explanation for why all living organisms share profound similarities, and yet, the life forms on our planet are so incredibly diverse. As you learned previously in this module, reproduction results in the passing of characteristics from parents to offspring and maintains the continuity of life. Biologists look at all life on the planet and see the same patterns. According to evolutionary thinking, life forms are similar because of their shared ancestry. Trace this process back in time, and it is reasonable to suppose that all life forms inherited DNA and many other features from a long-ago common ancestor. The process of natural selection is one way that scientists have explained the vast diversity of life on our planet. Individual organisms have a limited life span. Even if they avoid such a fate, most organisms decline in health and die toward the end of their typical life span. Offspring resemble their parent(s) and reproduction maintains the continuity of life over time. Because of this, many of the chemical reactions of life will not work properly if cell conditions change too much. It describes how life stands in one place despite many changes in the surrounding world. Life is much the same. In biology, thousands of materials make up our cells and bodies and they can be shaped in countless ways to generate the rich functions of life. For example, enzymes are critically important proteins that speed up the rate of chemical reactions that support life. When this occurs, the enzymes stop working and the chemical reactions of life slow down or cease. Enzymes are molecules found within a cell that speed up the rate of the chemical reactions necessary to support life. When this occurs, the enzymes stop working and the chemical reactions of life slow down or cease. In its most basic definition, biology is the scientific study of life. That is to say biology is the branch of science that studies life, living organisms, and the way organisms interact with their environment. Module 3 of this unit will focus on the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. In this module you’ll learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life. Biologists first studied infections and found that they are caused by microorganisms (very small life forms). Have you ever wondered if there could be life in space, on the moon, or on Mars? To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something of the principles of biology that are at work all day, every day in our bodies and on the planet. Biology is the study of life and all of the interactions, systems, and chemicals that are necessary to sustain it. In this course, you will come to see the Earth as a living planet, with life changing its rocks and atmosphere. You will learn about the fundamental principles of biology so that you can have a better understanding of the role biology plays in your everyday life - and in the life of Planet Earth. Cells are the basic unit of life, and therefore, the study of cells is essential to biology. In its most basic definition, biology is the scientific study of life. That is to say biology is the branch of science that studies life, living organisms, and the way organisms interact with their environment. Cells are the basic unit of life, and therefore, the study of cells is essential to biology. You will explore the difference between living and non-living things, and we will discuss the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. In this module you’ll learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life. Biologists first studied infections and found that they are caused by microorganisms (very small life forms). Have you ever wondered if there could be life in space, on the moon, or on Mars? To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something of the principles of biology that are at work all day, every day in our bodies and on the planet. Biology - The Study of Life: Biology is the study of life and all of the interactions, systems, and chemicals that are necessary to sustain planet Earth. In this course, you will come to see the Earth as a living planet, with life changing its rocks and atmosphere. You will learn about the fundamental principles of biology so that you can have a better understanding of the role biology plays in your everyday life - and in the life of Planet Earth. Until the late 1600s, only large life forms such as plants and animals were known to science. Scientists and common folk alike were totally ignorant of the teeming microscopic life forms that inhabit our world. Our understanding of life was very poor. Today we are aware of a vast diversity of single-celled, microscopic life forms that interact with us every day. Today, with our great knowledge of microscopic life and nonliving - but equally dangerous - viruses, we have an unprecedented ability to understand and address health challenges. Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. In the previous modules we discussed the nature of Biology and some key biological concepts in the study of life. Life is organized on hierarchical levels of increasing complexity. Biologists look at all levels of aspects of life, past and present. A more biological example would be life, an emergent property that appears at the cellular level. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. Over 2000 years ago, Aristotle said “The whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.” In biology, this is a constant theme: we can learn much about a system by looking at its details, but we also must step back and look at the big picture to truly understand the workings of life. Single-celled life forms are also considered to be organisms and are typically referred to as microorganisms. So the pine forest ecosytem includes not just plants, animals, and microbes but also rocks, water, temperature changes, air chemistry, and other abiotic factors that interact with life in the area. While there are no rigid separations between these disciplines and the hierarchical levels of organization of life, it is possible to relate some disciplines with specific levels, for example Cell Biology and Microbiology with the cellular level (see activity below). Biology is the scientific study of life. Life is everywhere. There are even specialized biologists, called astrobiologists, who study conditions on other planets and design experiments to determine whether or not life could exist in other places in our solar system. As you gain a deeper understanding of life and the processes that sustain it, you will be able to more effectively sort through and interpret this deluge of information, and make informed decisions about your health and how you interact with the environment. After completing this course, you will have a basic understanding of biological principles and how they relate to your life. This first unit, "Biology: The Science of Life," lays the foundation upon which the rest of the course is built. These life characteristics and biological principles represent the big ideas generally explored in an introduction to the study of biology. A special class of molecules called biomolecules are the “legos” used to build the structures required for life. The fundamental unit of life is the cell, and all cells are made of biomolecules. The cell is the first level of organization to display all the characteristics of life. Some organisms are more likely to survive than others, and this leads to evolutionary processes that result in the incredible diversity of life you see around you. The final chapter in the story reminds us that the diversity of life exists within a rich context of interactions, causes, and effects. Life does not take place in a vacuum; instead, living organisms rely intimately on other living organisms, as well as in the nonliving environment. As we study the fundamental principles of biology, we will systematically explore the following characteristics of life. While atoms do not possess life, they are required for life. The cellular level of organization is the first time all the characteristics of life emerge, resulting in a structure that is able to maintain its own internal constancy. Genetic information in cells provides the instructions for carrying out life processes. In order for life to continue, organisms must pass information to the next generation. Life changes and evolves over time. Life is organized into hierarchical levels of increasing complexity. Life is an emergent property, and one that appears at the cellular level of organization. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. More than 2,000 years ago, Aristotle said “The whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.” In biology, this is a constant theme: we can learn much about a system by looking at its details, but we also must step back and look at the big picture to truly understand the workings of life. Another way to relate the conditions for life with the hierarchy of life is shown in the concept map below. Related concepts will be highlighted and the theories of life introduced in the "big picture" described. You will explore the difference between living and non-living things, and we will discuss the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. In this module you’ll learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life. Biology - The Study of Life: Biology is the study of life and all of the interactions, systems, and chemicals that are necessary to sustain planet Earth. In this course, you will come to see the Earth as a living planet, with life changing its rocks and atmosphere. You will learn about the fundamental principles of biology so that you can have a better understanding of the role biology plays in your everyday life - and in the life of Planet Earth. Cells are the basic unit of life, and therefore, the study of cells is essential to biology. Biology is the scientific study of life. The understanding gained as a result of biological research has improved our quality of life. There are even specialized biologists, called astrobiologists, who study conditions on other planets and design experiments to determine whether or not life could exist in other places in our solar system. As you gain a deeper understanding of life and the processes that sustain it, you will be able to more effectively sort through and interpret this deluge of information, and make more informed decisions about your health and how you interact with the environment. Upon completing this course, learners will be able to understand and dialogue about biological principles and concepts relating to: cell biology, energy balance and nutrition, reproduction and genetics, diversity of life, and evolution. Biology is the scientific study of life. The understanding gained as a result of biological research has improved our quality of life. There are even specialized biologists, called astrobiologists, who study conditions on other planets and design experiments to determine whether or not life could exist in other places in our solar system. To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something about the principles of biology that are at work all day, every day in our bodies and on this planet. You will also see how biology “zooms” in and out, looking at life on a huge range of levels from atoms to the global environment. Last, we will learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life.  Also provided is an Appendix, which includes information such as a glossary of key terms and their definitions, a table illustrating the various ways biologists represent chemical structures, and an interactive image of the cell (the smallest unit of life). Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Energy is required to sustain life. One of the characteristics that defines life is the ability to grow and reproduce. Genetic information contains the instructions for carrying out life processes. In order for life to continue, organisms must pass information to the next generation. Our examination of the fundamental principles of biology will be an exploration of the following theories of life resulting from biological research. Life changes and evolves over time. Life senses and responds to external stimuli from the environment.  Life is diverse and organized into hierarchical levels. Life requires energy. Life grows, develops, and reproduces. Life responds to the environment and maintains internal stability through a process called homeostasis. Life evolves resulting in similar and diverse forms of life. What follows is a brief overview of each unit and how it relates to the theories about life resulting from biological research: Biology - The Study of Life: We elaborate on the themes that characterize life and the theories resulting from biological research, and discuss the nature of the scientific inquiry. We will then start our methodical exploration of living systems, beginning with the building blocks that are not alive, but are required for life. We will explore how life is diverse and organized into hierarchical levels starting with the smallest chemical building blocks of life to the cell (the basic unit of life). Our examination of the fundamental principles of biology will be an exploration of the following theories of life resulting from biological research. Energy is required to sustain life. One of the characteristics that defines life is the ability to grow and reproduce. Genetic information contains the instructions for carrying out life processes. In order for life to continue, organisms must pass information to the next generation.  Life is organized into hierarchical levels. Life requires energy. Life grows, develops, and reproduces. Life responds to the environment and maintains internal stability through a process called homeostasis. Life evolves and the biological traits of successive generations adapt to the environment. Life changes and evolves over time. Life senses and responds to external stimuli from the environment. What follows is a brief overview of each unit and how it relates to the theories about life resulting from biological research: Biology - The Study of Life: We elaborate on the themes that characterize life and the theories resulting from biological research, and discuss the nature of the scientific inquiry. We will then start our methodical exploration of living systems, beginning with the building blocks that are not alive, but are required for life. We will explore how life is diverse and organized into hierarchical levels starting with the smallest chemical building blocks of life to the cell (the basic unit of life). Life is an emergent property, and one that appears at the cellular level of organization. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. Over 2000 years ago, Aristotle said “The whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.” In biology, this is a constant theme: we can learn much about a system by looking at its details, but we also must step back and look at the big picture to truly understand the workings of life. The cell is the smallest and simplest entity that possesses all the characteristics of life: it takes in energy and matter to grow, producing its own unique macromolecules. Life is organized on levels of increasing complexity. Until the late 1600s, only large life forms such as plants and animals were known to science. Humans were completely ignorant of the teeming masses of microscopic life forms that inhabit our world. Today we are aware of a vast diversity of single-celled, microscopic life forms that interact with us every day. Today, with our great knowledge of microscopic life and nonliving — but equally dangerous — viruses, we have an unprecedented ability to understand and address health challenges. Biology is the scientific study of life and is the branch of science that studies living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. In this module, you will investigate the definition of life and explore some of the characteristics of living systems. To be classified as biotic, ALL four of the required conditions for life must be met or have been met in the past. Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Biology is the scientific study of life and is the branch of science that studies living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. In this module, you will investigate the definition of life and explore some of the characteristics of living systems. To be classified as biotic, ALL four of the required conditions for life must be met or have been met in the past. Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Below we discuss each condition for life and how viruses behave. Biology is the scientific study of life and is the branch of science that studies living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. In this module, you will investigate the definition of life and explore some of the characteristics of living systems. To be classified as biotic, all of the required conditions for life must be met or have been met in the past. Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Below we discuss each condition for life and how viruses behave. First, we discuss some aspect of how viruses function in relation to the conditions for life. Then, you will indicate whether or not a virus exhibits each condition for life. Characteristic of life: Life uses energy and raw materials to grow and reproduce. Characteristic of life: Life evolves. Characteristic of life: Living organisms grow, develop, and reproduce with the help of DNA. Characteristic of life: Living organisms consist of one or more cells. The cell is the smallest and simplest entity that possesses all the characteristics of life. Single-celled life forms are typically referred to as microorganisms. Life is organized on hierarchical levels of increasing complexity. Biologists look at all levels of aspects of life, past and present. A more biological example would be life, an emergent property that appears at the cellular level. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. As you’ve seen, life is an emergent property characterized by specific qualities. In its most basic definition, biology is the scientific study of life. That is to say biology is the branch of science that studies life, living organisms, and the way organisms interact with their environment. Well, some scientists have studied infections and found that they are caused by microorganisms (very small life forms). Have you ever wondered if there could be life in space, on the moon, or on Mars? To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something of the principles of biology that are at work all day, everyday day in our bodies and on the planet. Next this unit will focus on the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. According to the Centers for Disease Control, the average life expectancy in the United States has increased by more than 30 years since 1900. In science, as in life, things can happen for many different reasons. Stem cell research has been hailed as the source of potential cures for several life-threatening diseases – Alzheimer’s, ALS (Lou Gehrig’s Disease), Parkinson’s, cancer, juvenile diabetes and spinal cord injuries. Removing HESCs from the developing embryo destroys it, thus raising the moral objection to stem cell research on the basis that it ends human life. According to the Centers for Disease Control, the average life expectancy in the United States has increased by more than 30 years since 1900. In exploring biology thus far, we have focused on life from the “skin in”—you have learned about the structure and function of cells and have explored the chemical processes that enable life. Biology also looks from the skin out at the individual’s life in context. Ecology is the branch of biology that studies life at population and higher levels of organization, emphasizing how groups of living organisms interact with each other and with nonliving factors in their environment. Together, all of the zones of Earth that support life make up a giant interconnected system called the biosphere. These factors often play the greatest role in limiting large-bodied organisms with extended life spans such as large animals and woody plants. It involves life-and-death decisions that can be very emotionally charged. Unlike kelp forests, urchin barrens do not support much life. They are therefore included as part of the pond community because they can have an important effect on pond life. The stuff of life is continually recycled by biological and physical processes. Outside of life, it exists as carbon dioxide gas that mixes into the air and dissolves into water. Biogeochemical cycles are the pathways that chemical elements follow through ecosystems; they involve life (bio) and nonliving components (geo) . However, most life forms cannot use nitrogen gas. To fully appreciate an organism’s role in the environment, we must go beyond the web of life. In a healthy ecosystem, there is a continuous flow of energy that provides resources to sustain a diverse community of life. To complete the cycle back to life, plants take up ammonium through their roots and use its nitrogen to make proteins and nucleic acids. Over time, human activities may have permanent negative effects on the environment’s capacity to support life or provide resources to future generations. From earliest childhood, humans are fascinated by the diversity of life. Biodiversity is simply the diversity of life in an area. Earth is home to a diverse and vibrant riot of life. Taken together, thousands of observations and trends provide evidence for global climate change and indicate some of its consequences for life on planet Earth. Changes in seasonal patterns of life. Studies have found that some birds arrive at summer breeding grounds only to find that their prey (insects) have already completed their life cycles. Unfortunately, we also have the power to do great damage to the environment and its ability to sustain life. The history of humanity can be divided into three broad periods that represent widely differing ways of life. Chemistry is fundamental to life’s unity; it helps us grasp how all cells maintain a stable internal environment, grow, reproduce, and process energy. Chemistry also helps to explain the incredible diversity of life. Chemistry is fundamental to life’s unity; it helps us grasp how all cells maintain a stable internal environment, grow, reproduce, and process energy. Chemistry also helps to explain the incredible diversity of life. However, an understanding of the chemical foundations of life is essential for understanding how life functions. The atom is the smallest level in the hierarchy of life that we will explore in this course. The atom is the smallest level in the hierarchy of life that we will explore in this course. When you grasp the patterns in the periodic table, you will have an easier time understanding the chemical reactions that enable life. Life can be understood and studied at many levels of organization, from simpler to more inclusive or complex levels. Only cells or multicellular organisms have all the properties of life. However, an understanding of the chemical foundations of life is essential for understanding how life functions. Think back to the Introduction to Biology module in this course, when you learned that all life exhibits a hierarchical organization. This is why a clear understanding of some chemistry is essential to understanding how life functions. Finally, we’ll examine the concept of pH and discuss its implications for life. Think back to the Introduction to Biology module in this course, when you learned that all life exhibits a hierarchical organization. Finally, we discuss a concept called pH, and its implications for life and temperature control. In the Introduction to Biology module, you learned that all life exhibits a hierarchical organization. This is why a clear understanding of some chemistry is essential to understanding how life functions. In this unit, you will explore only nonliving components of the hierarchy of life. It is because, at least here on Earth, water is essential to life. Evidence of water on Mars, and some of the moons of Saturn and Jupiter, increases the odds that life may exist there. All of life’s chemical reactions take place in watery fluid. Without water, life as we know it simply would not exist. Cohesive and adhesive forces are important for sustaining life. You now know about some of the special properties of water, arguably the most important molecule for life on Earth. In your everyday life you may be familiar with acid and base neutralization through your lawn care and gardening activities. This course has looked closely at the water molecule because it is vital to life. In this module, we will examine one very small (and simple) substance that, when dissolved in water, can have an enormous impact on life: the hydrogen ion (H+). The chemical reactions of life are tuned to a specific and often narrow pH range; outside this range, the reactions will not proceed normally. While it is clear that the regulation of pH in living organisms is crucial to their survival, the pH in the environment is just as important to maintaining life on this planet. Many marine life forms, including reef-building corals, are harmed or killed when ocean water is acidified. Changes in the hydrogen ion concentration of the oceans can have dramatic impacts on life in the sea, affecting all levels of the food chain. When organic molecules combine to form proteins, carbohydrates, lipids and nucleic acids, the building blocks for life are established. The characteristics of carbon are essential for building the complex and diverse structures needed for life. The characteristics of carbon are essential for building the complex and diverse structures needed for life. Proteins are essential for carrying out most of the necessary functions of life. Proteins are essential for carrying out most of the necessary functions of life. In our exploration of biology, you have learned that matter is organized into hierarchical levels starting with non-living entities (atoms and subatomic particles) to the cell (the first level of life) to complex organisms (plants and animals) to the biosphere. These macromolecules are the building blocks that are used to form the cell, which is the fundamental unit of life. In this way, you provide your cells with the building materials and energy necessary to sustain life. In the next unit, we will use these fundamental building blocks to form the cell, the first level of organization that shows all the characteristics of life. To meet the speed of life, chemical reactions in cells are sped up by enzyme catalysts. Lipids are essential to life. This process increases shelf-life and produces flaky rather than crumbly crusts when used for baking. Cell division is an essential life process that ensures the passage of genetic information from one generation to the next. Cell division is an essential life process that ensures the passage of genetic information from one generation to the next. Life is considered an emergent property, and the cellular level is the first to present it. In summary, you will learn about the structural characteristics of different types of cells, and will start exploring some of their functional characteristics, such as the cellular life cycle and the ways in which cells communication with their surroundings. The cell is the first level of organization that exhibits all the properties of life. Made up of biological macromolecules, the cell’s unique structure enables it to carry out the functions of life. However, enzymes and other biological macromolecules made of matter do not possess the properties of life. In fact, it is only after we combine these molecular building blocks to form a cell that we finally see the emergent property of life. This separation enables the cell to maintain homeostasis and exhibit the emergent property of life. However, there were still controversies between those who believed in the existence of a vital force able to “create” life (spontaneous generation) and those who supported biogenesis, which claims that living cells can arise only from pre-existing cells. Cytoplasm is the space in which the chemical reactions that enable life take place. Cytoplasm is the space in which the chemical reactions that enable life take place. However, there were still controversies between those who believed in the existence of a vital force able to “create” life (spontaneous generation) and those who supported biogenesis, which claims that living cells can arise only from pre-existing cells. However, there were still controversies between those who believed in the existence of a vital force able to “create” life (spontaneous generation) and those who supported biogenesis, which claims that living cells can arise only from pre-existing cells. However, they are not cells, and while they may exhibit certain characteristics of life, they do so only in certain conditions. However, they are not cells, and while they may exhibit certain characteristics of life, they do so only in certain conditions. This process, called photosynthesis, is the basis of life as we know it on our planet. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. Medical research has made an enormous difference in the life expectancy of people with cystic fibrosis, and today, they routinely live into their thirties and forties. How are endocytosis and exocytosis important to everyday life? How are endocytosis and exocytosis important to everyday life? Female gametes (eggs or oocytes), on the other hand, are formed in the ovaries during fetal life. In the human life cycle, haploid gametes produced during meiosis fuse to form a diploid zygote, which goes through the process of mitosis to grow into an adult human. Female gametes (eggs or oocytes), on the other hand, are formed in the ovaries during fetal life. Humans who have more or less than 46 chromosomes sometimes survive, but usually have life-altering conditions, such as Down Syndrome. Each of us began life as a single cell called a zygote. Humans who have more or less than 46 chromosomes sometimes survive, but usually have life-altering conditions, such as Down syndrome. This sorting of genetic material is essential, because most of the essential information for life is stored in the DNA. The diagram below shows an overview of the stages in a cell's life cycle: (You may have heard this called the circle of life.) In this unit you learned about one of the key features of life: the ability to transform energy and matter. The central anabolic pathway enabling most life on Earth is photosynthesis. Photosynthesis and cellular respiration create a cycle of materials and enable the flow of energy to most life on Earth. Metabolism is essential to all life and has many important applications to human health. In this unit you learned about one of the key features of life: the ability to transform energy and matter. The central anabolic pathway enabling most life on Earth is photosynthesis. Photosynthesis and cellular respiration create a cycle of materials and enable the flow of energy to most life on Earth. Metabolism is essential to all life and has many important applications to human health. The cell is the fundamental unit of life. It is the first level of organization that presents all the properties of life. A number of pathways, such as those related to energy production, are essential to life and are found in all cells. Most life on Earth is fueled by solar energy through the process of photosynthesis. All of the complex molecules of life — carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, nucleic acids — are generated by anabolic reactions. Life requires energy to accomplish its anabolic reactions. Ultimately, energy for life comes from the sun. Ultimately, energy for life comes from the sun. In the previous units, you learned about the biomolecules that build up cells, the basic unit of life. A number of pathways, such as those related to energy production, are essential to life and found in all cells. In the previous units, you learned about the biomolecules that build up cells, the basic unit of life. A number of pathways, such as those related to energy production, are essential to life and found in all cells. All living things need energy to run the processes required for life. Eventually, the supply of fuel in the sun will be depleted and our sun’s long life will end. Without these pathways, life as we know it would cease to exist. To the contrary, it is a global cycle that makes all life on Earth interdependent. These materials are essential to virtually all other life forms on Earth. Without this vital connection between photosynthesis and cellular respiration, life as we know it would cease to exist. To the contrary, it is a global cycle that makes all life on Earth interdependent. These materials are essential to virtually all other life forms on Earth. Pretend photosynthetic life is discovered on another planet. When you look at life, you may see a great deal of diversity. When you look at life, you may see a great deal of diversity. Many of these chemical reactions are essential for life and all of them help maintain overall health. The symptoms can be treated individually, and people with Marfan syndrome may have normal life spans. Newborns are tested for this defect very early in life, so that if the results are positive, they can be given a diet limiting phenylalanine ingestion. In the Classical Genetics unit, we considered the mechanisms of inheritance focusing mostly on the organism and population levels in the hierarchy of life.  In the Classical Genetics unit, you learned about the mechanisms of inheritance, focusing mostly on the organism and population levels in the hierarchy of life. How genomes of variable sizes can be totally replicated within the appropriate life cycle time of the cell is a significant challenge. While we know that the life-cycles of eukaryotic cells are extremely variable, the S-phase, the period of time during the eukaryotic life-cycle when DNA is replicated, typically last 8 hours. It is thought that during the dawn of life, RNA was the first molecule to store genetic information, and certain viruses still have RNA as their nucleic acid component. It is thought that during the dawn of life, RNA was the first molecule to store genetic information, and certain viruses still have RNA as their nucleic acid component. Unlike the genome, which remains fairly unchanged throughout an organism’s life cycle, the epigenome (consisting of the pattern of DNA methylation and histone modifications) is dynamic, responds to the environment, and can be heritable. You will also learn about how biotechnology has solved this problem and decreased the cost of medical treatments that significantly improve the quality of life for many people. In this section, you will learn about the organ systems that are necessary for the vital functions of life in humans. The sections that follow will describe the details of the some of these essential organ systems that perform vital functions of human life. To put these systems in context, we will first discuss vital functions of life. For human life, there are several vital functions.  In the Genetics unit, you learned about the mechanisms of inheritance, focusing mostly on the organism and population levels in the hierarchy of life. Organs are composed of two or more kinds of tissues, and organs work together in systems to accomplish major life functions. Adaptive traits are those that are favored by natural selection; when we look at life in all of its diversity, we encounter amazing adaptations at every turn. It is a scientific theory that explores life on a different scale and provides another layer of explanation (Table 1). Instead, evolution considers how life changes from one generation to the next and how these changes accumulate over very long time scales. Rather than taking the features of life as a starting point, evolution asks why those features exist today and how they originated in the past. In the third module we will consider the much more dramatic changes that occur over long time scales and generate the diversity of life (macroevolution). According to current scientific thinking, all of life’s diversity can be traced back to one or a few original cellular life forms. From this starting point, macroevolution has done a huge job in producing life’s diversity. It has had a long time to work: scientists estimate that life on Earth is well over 3 billion years old. Over vast time spans, slow and subtle processes have produced the spectacular diversity of modern life. One striking feature of life is its adaptation: the exquisite “fit” between organisms and their natural environments. In their behavior, structure, and chemistry organisms are very well-suited to the conditions of life they experience. People have been grappling with questions about the origins of life for nearly as long as we have been in existence. Before the Scientific Revolution, people used many different sources of information to answer questions about the origins of life. Stories were told to explain how the world and humans were made, but also to address questions of meaning: why the world exists and what human life is “for.” Ideas were passed down as oral tradition (myth and folklore) or in the written documents of organized religions. Many scientists embrace religious ideas about the meaning and ultimate origins of life. In this course, we will focus on how the scientific community understands evolution and the origins of life. But Darwin didn’t make up the theory from nothing, and he wasn’t the first to ask questions about the ultimate origins of life. How did science deal with life’s big “why” questions before evolutionary theory developed? In the following activity, you will be presented with different views related to the origins of life that have been held throughout history. The malaria parasite spends a large part of its life cycle in red blood cells. These protists (eukaryotes) have complicated life-cycles that require both a mosquito host and a human host, and the parasite undergoes many developmental stages within these two hosts. Because of its complex life cycle and the eukaryotic nature of this organism, malaria has been a difficult disease to combat. It helps us deal with the vast diversity of life in an organized fashion. Assembling the Tree of Life: Harnessing Life’s History to Benefit Science and Society. Above the level of Kingdom, he proposed three Domains of life. Woese’s data have since been greatly expanded, and the new data are consistent with the idea that the three Domains are the first three branches on a unified tree of life. As with vertebrate limb structure, the genetic similarities among life forms are more than a passing resemblance. In these ancient gene sequences we see the deepest roots of the tree of life. This shouldn’t be too surprising: they are all vertebrate animals, close relatives in the grand scheme of life’s diversity. The result has been a huge improvement in our ability to identify the clades within the tree of life. Tree of Life web project: http://tolweb.org/tree/ Travels in the Great Tree of Life, Peabody Museum: http://archive.peabody.yale.edu/exhibits/treeoflife/index.html Wellcome Trust Tree of Life website: http://www.wellcometreeoflife.org/ Bill’s paper begins: “Phylogenetic biology is the exhaustive comparison of taxonomic units in an attempt to elucidate the ancestral relationships among all life forms on the planet Earth.” Sarah’s paper starts with the exact same sentence. According to current evolutionary thinking, all life on Earth is related by ancestry. Through careful analysis of many different characteristics, biologists create phylogenetic tree diagrams that represent hypotheses about how life’s clades have evolved over time. Indeed, we would be aliens on a planet full of alien life forms. Instead, we are surrounded by - and part of - a great extended family of life. Biodiversity is simply the diversity of life in an area.  The scientific study of life.  All areas on, within, and around the planet Earth that are capable of supporting life.  A protein that speeds up the rate of chemical reactions that support life. A life form that cannot be seen with the naked eye; also called a microbe. Microorganisms include bacteria, many single-celled eukaryotes (plants, animals, fungi, and small creatures called protists), and even some multicellular life forms. All living things need energy to run the processes required for life. Enzymes speed up the rate of chemical reactions that support life. A life form that cannot be seen with the naked eye; also called a microbe. Microorganisms include bacteria, many single-celled eukaryotes (plants, animals, fungi, and small creatures called protists), and even some multicellular life forms. Any life form - animal, plant, fungus, bacteria, protist, or single-celled entity. Materials released or discarded by humans that harm human health or life in ecosystems. A disproven principle stating that life could originate from inanimate matter on an ongoing basis. Biodiversity is simply the diversity of life in an area. The scientific study of life.  All areas on, within, and around the planet Earth that are capable of supporting life. A series of phases in the life of the cell through which it grows and divides. A clade forms a distinct branch on the tree of life.

6. [u'acids', u'acid', u'acidic']
   The functional groups that are responsible for these interactions are those found in the side chains of amino acids, the peptide bonds in the protein and the small molecule binding partner. Phosphorous, an important component in nucleic acids (e.g. While enantiomers usually undergo chemical reactions in an identical fashion, biological systems are capable of discriminating between these structurally different molecules because biological systems themselves contain chiral centers, such as in amino acids. Instructions: Try to identify the chiral center(s) of a more complicated molecule - the amino acid threonine, one of the building blocks of proteins. While enantiomers usually undergo chemical reactions in an identical fashion, biological systems are capable of discriminating between these structurally different molecules because biological systems themselves contain chiral centers, such as in amino acids. Instructions: Try to identify the chiral center(s) of a more complicated molecule - the amino acid threonine, one of the building blocks of proteins. Weak acids can act as pH buffers when the pH is within approximately one unit of the pKa for the acid. Weak acids can act as pH buffers when the pH is within approximately one unit of the pKa for the acid. Of the three types, the polar charged groups, amino, carboxyl, and phosphate, undergo the greatest change depending on the environment in which they are found. They are weak electrolytes and behave as bases (amino groups) or acids (carboxyl and phosphate groups) and as such have the potential to exist as ions. Thus we need to have a thorough understanding of the chemical behavior of acids and bases in solution. The table below lists the Ka values for several acids. The table below lists the Ka values for several acids. The ratio of all weak acids is 1 when pH = pKa. Thus the above table would look similar for all weak acids with the difference being the pH would change in relation to the pKa for the acid. In this tutorial you will explore the relationship between K and different acids. In this, and following, sections, we will begin to develop a quantitative relationship between the strength of an acid and how the acids ionization state will depend on the pH of the solution. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. Time will be spent on understanding this reaction since it is the same reaction that is used to link amino acids together to make proteins and fatty acids to glycerol to made the components of biological membranes. Carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids are all examples of polymers. Proteins are linear polymers of amino acids all joined by peptide bonds. This unit includes a discussion of the structures of polymers of carbohydrates and of amino acids. Carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids are all examples of polymers. Proteins are linear polymers of amino acids all joined by peptide bonds. This unit includes a discussion of the structures of polymers of carbohydrates and of amino acids. Carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids are all examples of polymers. Proteins are linear polymers of amino acids all joined by peptide bonds. This unit includes a discussion of the structures of polymers of carbohydrates and of amino acids. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. Short polymers (< 50 residues or amino acids) are usually refereed to as peptides, and longer polymers as proteins. Because the synthesis takes place from the alpha amino group of one amino acid to the carboxyl group of another amino acid, the result is that there will always be a free amino group on one end of the growing polymer (the N-terminus) and a free carboxyl group on the other end (the C-terminus). Note that the potential exists for the formation of amide (peptide) links involving the carboxyl and amino groups in the side chains, but bioselectivity directs the synthesis to be linear, involving only the alpha amino and alpha carboxyl groups. Note that after the amino acid has been incorporated into the protein, the charges on the –amino and the carboxyl groups have disappeared. The name of the N-terminal residue is always the first amino acid. The name of each amino acid then follows. The primary sequence of a protein refers to its amino acid sequence. You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the sidechain atoms of each amino acid. For example, which amino acids have polar sidechains? Instructions: In order to answer the following questions you will have to view the 3D structure of different amino acids in the Jmol window. You can load different structures by clicking on the name of the amino acid.  Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. The sequence of amino acids in individual proteins is encoded in the DNA of the cell. The physical and chemical properties of the 20 different, naturally occurring amino acids dictate the shape of the protein and its interactions with its environment. Certain short sequences of amino acids in the protein also dictate where the protein resides in the cell. Proteins are composed of hundreds to thousands of amino acids. As you can imagine, protein folding is a complicated process and there are many potential shapes due to the large number of combinations of amino acids. By understanding the properties of the amino acids you will get an appreciation for the limits of protein folding and how to predict the potential higher order structure of the protein. The numbering of the carbon atoms in an amino acid follows the nomenclature used for carboxylic acids. All amino acids that are found in proteins have the same backbone structure, the acidic carboxylic acid group, the –carbon, and an amino group that is attached to the -carbon, hence the name -amino acids. The sidechain, or R, group is attached to the -carbon and is different for each amino acid. The amino group has a pKa value of ~9, thus it is protonated at pH 7.0. Each of the 20 amino acids has a different sidechain(R group), which is attached to the –carbon. Use the exercise below to identify these important functional groups in an amino acid. The chiral center gives rise to D and L enantiomers for each amino acid. However, where bioselectivity dictated the dominance of D carbohydrates, the same discrimination process for amino acids gives rise to the dominance of the use of L amino acids in nature.  If all of the amino acids have the same basic structure with an amino, a carboxyl and a hydrogen fixed to the –carbon, then the large variation in the properties and structure of the amino acids must come from the fourth group attached to the –carbon. This group is referred to as the side chain of the amino acid or the R group. The structures of the 20 common amino acids are shown below. Clicking on the amino acid in the table, displays three-dimensional model of that amino acid below the table. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. The sidechain groups of these amino acids contain many of the same functional groups that were discussed in the first module and can be found in the Functional Groups. To learn more about the amino acids, watch the video of Dr. Bill Brown's lecture on amino acids. Proteins are polymers of amino acids. The amino acids are joined together by a condensation reaction similar to that described for the formation of the glycosidic bond in polysaccharides. Each amino acid in the polymer is referred to as a residue. Individual amino acids are joined together by the attack of the nitrogen of an amino group of one amino acid on the carbonyl carbon of the carboxyl group of another to create a covalent peptide bond and yield a molecule of water as shown below. Short polymers (< 50 residues or amino acids) are usually refereed to as peptides, and longer polymers as proteins. Because the synthesis takes place from the alpha amino group of one amino acid to the carboxyl group of another amino acid, the result is that there will always be a free amino group on one end of the growing polymer (the N-terminus) and a free carboxyl group on the other end (the C-terminus). Note that the potential exists for the formation of amide (peptide) links involving the carboxyl and amino groups in the side chains, but bioselectivity directs the synthesis to be linear, involving only the alpha amino and alpha carboxyl groups. Note that after the amino acid has been incorporated into the protein, the charges on the –amino and the carboxyl groups have disappeared. The name of the N-terminal residue is always the first amino acid. The name of each amino acid then follows. The primary sequence of a protein refers to its amino acid sequence. You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the sidechain atoms of each amino acid. For example, which amino acids have polar sidechains? Instructions: In order to answer the following questions you will have to view the 3D structure of different amino acids in the Jmol window. You can load different structures by clicking on the name of the amino acid.  Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. The sequence of amino acids in individual proteins is encoded in the DNA of the cell. The physical and chemical properties of the 20 different, naturally occurring amino acids dictate the shape of the protein and its interactions with its environment. Certain short sequences of amino acids in the protein also dictate where the protein resides in the cell. Proteins are composed of hundreds to thousands of amino acids. As you can imagine, protein folding is a complicated process and there are many potential shapes due to the large number of combinations of amino acids. By understanding the properties of the amino acids you will get an appreciation for the limits of protein folding and how to predict the potential higher order structure of the protein. The numbering of the carbon atoms in an amino acid follows the nomenclature used for carboxylic acids. All amino acids that are found in proteins have the same backbone structure, the acidic carboxylic acid group, the –carbon, and an amino group that is attached to the -carbon, hence the name -amino acids. The sidechain, or R, group is attached to the -carbon and is different for each amino acid. The amino group has a pKa value of ~9, thus it is protonated at pH 7.0. Each of the 20 amino acids has a different sidechain(R group), which is attached to the –carbon. Use the exercise below to identify these important functional groups in an amino acid. The chiral center gives rise to D and L enantiomers for each amino acid. However, where bioselectivity dictated the dominance of D carbohydrates, the same discrimination process for amino acids gives rise to the dominance of the use of L amino acids in nature.  If all of the amino acids have the same basic structure with an amino, a carboxyl and a hydrogen fixed to the –carbon, then the large variation in the properties and structure of the amino acids must come from the fourth group attached to the –carbon. This group is referred to as the side chain of the amino acid or the R group. The structures of the 20 common amino acids are shown below. Clicking on the amino acid in the table, displays three-dimensional model of that amino acid below the table. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. The sidechain groups of these amino acids contain many of the same functional groups that were discussed in the first module and can be found in the Functional Groups. To learn more about the amino acids, watch the video of Dr. Bill Brown's lecture on amino acids. Proteins are polymers of amino acids. The amino acids are joined together by a condensation reaction similar to that described for the formation of the glycosidic bond in polysaccharides. Each amino acid in the polymer is referred to as a residue. Individual amino acids are joined together by the attack of the nitrogen of an amino group of one amino acid on the carbonyl carbon of the carboxyl group of another to create a covalent peptide bond and yield a molecule of water as shown below.  A protein is composed of amino acids attached in a linear order. The order of the amino acids is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis.  Proteins take on structure in stages defined by the interactions of amino acids with each other in the primary sequence.  Primary Structure script('reset;select all;backbone off;cartoon off;wireframe off;font echo 12;set echo middle left;echo Chain A:|Val-Leu-Ser-Pro-Ala-Asp-...;color echo black;') is the sequence of amino acids. Hemoglobin has four separate polypeptide chains, the first few amino acids of the first chain (chain A) will appear after clicking the button. Proteins are an essential part of a cell, and are composed of 20 amino acids that fold into intricate structures. Proline is unusual among the amino acids and is technically referred to as an imino acid. It is a cyclic molecule forming a five member ring that closes the linear hydrocarbon side chain with the -amino group.  When two amino acids are joined a peptide bond is formed through a condensation reaction. If one knows all of the phi-psi angles of rotation for every amino acid residue in a protein, it is possible to define the secondary structure of that protein.  Secondary structure is generally defined by the interaction of amino acids adjacent to each other in the primary sequence. In -helices there are 3.7 amino acids per turn and the carbonyl of the n-th amino acid hydrogen bonds to the amide hydrogen of the n+4 amino acid.  Proteins contain a mix of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids. Stabilization of the Folded State: The tertiary structure is determined by non-covalent interactions that involve amino acid side chains (side chain and backbone interactions, or side chain-side chain interactions). Amino acid residues involved in these interactions can come from distant parts of the polypeptide chain bringing the chain into a more compact shape. One covalent bond is possible and is formed when two cysteine amino acids (sulfhydryl containing side chain) are close together as a result of tertiary structure formation.  Proteins contain a mix of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids. Stabilization of the Folded State: The tertiary structure is determined by non-covalent interactions that involve amino acid side chains (side chain and backbone interactions, or side chain-side chain interactions). Amino acid residues involved in these interactions can come from distant parts of the polypeptide chain bringing the chain into a more compact shape. One covalent bond is possible and is formed when two cysteine amino acids (sulfhydryl containing side chain) are close together as a result of tertiary structure formation. In animal cells cholesterol helps to prevent the packing of fatty acid tails and thus lowers the requirement of unsaturated fatty acids. In animal cells cholesterol helps to prevent the packing of fatty acid tails and thus lowers the requirement of unsaturated fatty acids. The fatty acids are unbranched hydrocarbons that terminate with a single carboxyl functional group. The fatty acids are generally 16-22 carbons long and can be both saturated and unsaturated. Unsaturated fatty acids have lower melting points than saturated fatty acids. To construct a fat, or triacylglycerol, three fatty acid molecules are attached to the glycerol through an ester bond between the carboxyl group of the fatty acids and the three alcohol groups of a glycerol molecule. A fat molecule can be composed of one, two, or three different types of fatty acids each of which can be saturated or unsaturated.  Phospholipids contain only two fatty acids attached to a glycerol head. As a triprotic acid (i.e it has three acidic functions on the phorphorus atom) the phosphate group attached to the glycerol has the potential to form ester links with a variety of other molecules such as carbohydrates, choline, inositol and amino acids. It is based on an observation of the activity of the transactivator TAT protein associated with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) and subsequently polyarginine (arginine is a positively charge, naturally occurring amino acid) and other proteins containing a basic peptide region referred to as the protein transduction domain (PTD). It is based on an observation of the activity of the transactivator TAT protein associated with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) and subsequently polyarginine (arginine is a positively charge, naturally occurring amino acid) and other proteins containing a basic peptide region referred to as the protein transduction domain (PTD). Examples are carbohydrates and amino acids. Examples are carbohydrates and amino acids. The mRNA contains the information on the order of the amino acids in protein that is being synthesized on the ribosome. Each base triplet corresponds to one amino acid. tRNA: transfer RNA is responsible for translation of the nucleic acid code to an amino acid. tRNA carries an amino acid to the protein synthesis machinery (ribosome) and is responsible for decoding the mRNA information to insert the correct amino acid into the growing protein on the ribosome. Use the buttons to highlight common features of both of these nucleic acids as you answer the questions below. Use the buttons to highlight common features of both of these nucleic acids as you answer the questions below. The alternating ribose-phosphate-ribose is referred to as the backbone of the nucleic acid polymer, in much the same way the N, alpha-Carbon, and carbonyl atoms in an amino acid form the backbone of a protein. Similarly, the nucleotide bases are analogous to the amino acid sidechains. Translation involves the conversion of a sequence of RNA to a corresponding sequence of amino acids. To perform the conversion a code is needed to translate from the four nucleotides (AUGC) of mRNA to the 20 naturally occurring amino acids. The question then is what combination of nucleotides can code for at least twenty different amino acids? Not enough to code for 20 different amino acids. Clearly this is enough to code for the 20 naturally-occurring amino acids. In fact, the abundance of codes means that there is redundancy or degeneracy in the code with more than one triplet code representing a single amino acid. The remaining 60 codons represented the 20 amino acids. Having elucidated the entire code it was found that for many of the amino acids, the first two nucleotides in the sequence defined the amino acid with the third nucleotide being any of the four nucleotides. For example the codon for the amino acid leucine is CUX where the X represents any one of the four nucleotides, and the codon for the amino acid valine is GUX. This also demonstrates the fact that a single amino acid can be coded by several triplet codes but a triplet code only represents a single amino acid. This triplet code for converting the sequence of mRNA to a sequence of amino acids is referred to as the Genetic Code. The process by which the correct amino acid is added to the correct tRNA is referred to as the charging of the tRNA.  Living organisms consume food, in the form of carbohydrates, fats, and amino acids, to live. Since the entire process of metabolism is complex, it is useful to discuss the general features of the metabolic pathways that are involved in converting sugars, amino acids, and fats to energy. For example, glucose can be synthesized from pyruvate, fatty acids from acetyl-CoA, and amino acids from intermediates in the TCA cycle.  Living organisms consume food, in the form of carbohydrates, fats, and amino acids, to live. Since the entire process of metabolism is complex, it is useful to discuss the general features of the metabolic pathways that are involved in converting sugars, amino acids, and fats to energy. For example, glucose can be synthesized from pyruvate, fatty acids from acetyl-CoA, and amino acids from intermediates in the TCA cycle.  Living organisms consume food, in the form of carbohydrates, fats, and amino acids, to live. Since the entire process of metabolism is complex, it is useful to discuss the general features of the metabolic pathways that are involved in converting sugars, amino acids, and fats to energy. For example, glucose can be synthesized from pyruvate, fatty acids from acetyl-CoA, and amino acids from intermediates in the TCA cycle. Not only is this pathway the next step for the oxidation of glucose and fatty acids, it also plays a key role in amino acid metabolism. Entry of fatty acids into the TCA occurs directly into acetyl-CoA. During the process of fatty acid oxidation (beta-oxidation) which also occurs in the mitochondrial matrix, two-carbon fragments are progressively released from fatty acids and incorporated into acetyl-CoA. If compounds in the TCA cycle are used to synthesize other compounds, such as amino acids, the TCA cycle will eventually halt due to depletion of oxaloacetate. Hormonal stimulation by glucagon or epinephrine activates lipases which release the fatty acids from the glycerol. The fatty acids are activated for oxidation in the cytosol by the addition of an coenzyme A group to the carboxylic acid, forming acyl-CoA. Although the metabolism of most amino acids is a complicated multi-step process, a number of amino acids enter the main oxidative pathways by a single transaminase reaction. In the transaminase reaction a ketone group is replaced by an amino group. For example, the amino acid alanine is converted to pyruvate by the following transaminase reaction: Hormonal stimulation by glucagon or epinephrine activates lipases which release the fatty acids from the glycerol. The fatty acids are activated for oxidation in the cytosol by the addition of an coenzyme A group to the carboxylic acid, forming acyl-CoA. Although the metabolism of most amino acids is a complicated multi-step process, a number of amino acids enter the main oxidative pathways by a single transaminase reaction. In the transaminase reaction a ketone group is replaced by an amino group. For example, the amino acid alanine is converted to pyruvate by the following transaminase reaction: There are four main types of macromolecules that you will be learning about in this course: carbohydrates, nucleic acids, lipids, and proteins. All living things are made of carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids, and they all contain roughly the same blend of chemical elements. organic macromolecules made up of amino acids connected by peptide bonds. Acids taste sour. Fatty acids form structures in solution called micelles. Fatty acids form structures in solution called micelles. Examples include hydrocarbons and fatty acids with their abundant nonpolar C-H bonds. These compounds are called acids. One such application in the laboratory is to neutralize strong acids or bases so that they can safely be disposed of. Lotisha is a biology student who is learning about acids and bases. Lotisha is a biology student who is learning about acids and bases. These compounds are called acids. When fatty acids are broken down, ketone acids are produced as a by-product. In healthy individuals, a small amount of ketone acids are released by normal metabolic processes; for example, if you are losing weight, fat breakdown will add some ketone acids to your bloodstream. They alternate with phosphate groups to make up the long backbone of nucleic acids, as shown below. The four major classes of biological macromolecules are carbohydrates, proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids. Proteins are polymers made up of amino acids (the monomers). Nucleic acids are polymers made up of nucleotides (subunits or monomers). There are many different types of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids. There are also many different types of subunit amino acids, sugars, fatty acids, and nucleotides. For example, the function of a particular protein is determined by the amino acids in it. Alcohols (-OH) found on amino acids and carbohydrates. Amides (-C=O-NH2) found on some amino acids. Amino acids are linked together in proteins by amide linkages (-C=O-NH-C). Non-polar functional groups are often found on amino acid side chains of proteins and they also make up a major part of most lipid molecules. Methyl - CH3, found in the amino acid alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine. Phenyl - (CH)6, found in the amino acid phenylalanine. For example, amino acids, the building blocks of proteins, consists of an amino group bonded to a carboxylic acid group. Later in this unit, you will learn more about the monomer, amino acids, the building blocks of a very important biomacromolecule, protein. Nonpolar functional groups are often found on amino acid side chains of proteins, and they also make up a major part of most lipid molecules. Non-polar functional groups are often found on amino acid side chains of proteins and they also make up a major part of most lipid molecules. There are four significant classes of biological macromolecules: carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. There are four classes of biological macromolecules that we will study in this course: carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. Time will be spent on understanding this reaction since it is the same reaction that is used to link amino acids together to make proteins and fatty acids to glycerol to made the components of biological membranes. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. A protein is composed of a series of amino acids attached end-to-end via covalent bonds. Consequently a protein looks like a string of beads, with each bead representing an amino acid. The bond between the amino acids is referred to as the peptide bond. Amino acids are small organic chemicals that can be identified by their common structures. All amino acids have a nitrogen containing amino group, a carboxylic acid group, and and a single carbon between the amino and carboxylic acid groups. Thus amino acids are identical except for the different R-groups attached to the alpha carbon. The properties of different proteins depends entirely on the sequence, or arrangement of the amino acids. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. There are many ways to represent an amino acid. In the next module, you will use building block models of amino acids to figure out how proteins areformed. There are many ways to represent an amino acid. In the next module, you will use building block models of amino acids to figure out how proteins areformed. An amino acid on the left is a building block diagram. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. A protein is composed of a series of amino acids attached end-to-end via covalent bonds. Consequently, a protein looks like a string of beads, with each bead representing an amino acid. The bond between the amino acids is referred to as the peptide bond. An amino acid is a small organic chemical that is made up of four parts. There is a nitrogen-containing amino group on one end of an amino acid. The other end of an amino acid has a carboxylic acid group. These two groups (the amino group and the carboxylic acid group) are the reason for the name “amino acid.” The amino and carboxylic acid groups are linked by a single carbon atom called the alpha carbon. The amino acids differ in the nature of the R group that is attached to the central alpha carbon. In this way, all amino acids are identical except for the different R groups (also called side chains) attached to the alpha carbon. The properties of different proteins depend entirely on the sequence, or arrangement, of the amino acids. There are many ways to represent an amino acid. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. Proteins are macromolecules built from amino acids. This specialized function is determined largely by the types of amino acids that are in the protein. There are 20 different amino acids that can be joined in a myriad of ways to produce molecules with an enormous variety of possible structures that can perform a huge number of critical cellular functions. Proteins EVERYTHING IS AWESOME are built when amino acids are linked end-to-end by covalent bonds. The covalent bonds that link amino acids are called peptide bonds. A peptide bond is formed when the amino group of one amino acid reacts with the carboxylic acid of another amino acid. After a peptide bond forms, the three conserved parts of the two amino acids (the nitrogen group, the alpha carbon and the carboxylic acid) are all linked, forming the main chain, or backbone, of the protein. The variable side chains of each amino acid (the R groups) project out from the main chain. Two amino acids join to form a dipeptide. Longer chains of connected amino acids are often called polypeptides. When polypeptides are synthesized, new amino acids are added only to the carboxylic acid end of the existing chain. One end has a free amino group, while the other end has a free carboxylic acid group. When amino acids in a protein are counted, the numbering starts with the amino acid that has the free amino group. The last amino acid is also the last one that was added when the chain was built: it has a free carboxylic acid group. The order of the amino acids in a particular protein is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes and the order of amino acids is referred to as the sequence of the protein. An example of aprotein sequence is shown below where the one letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. By convention, the first first amino acid is at the end with the free amino group and the last amino acid is at the end with the carboylic acid group. The linear chain of amino acids will spontaneously fold into a three dimensional shape, which is usually the active form of the protein. Amino acids with non-polar (hydrophobic) sidechains are driven into the central core of the protein because they are repelled by the water. This is known as the hydrophobic effect and it results in proteins that have amino acids with hydrophilic sidechains on the surface of the protein. The folded protein reaches the lowest energy state, which is the most stable, by folding in a way to optimize the burial of non-polar amino acid sidechains while still leaving the polar groups on the surface. Therefore, the shape of the folded form of the protein depends on the order of hydrophobic amino acids in the protein. Consider a short 12 amino acid protein consisting of polar (white) and non-polar (black) amino acids. This polypeptide will fold to bury most of the non-polar amino acids, removing them from contact with water, giving the lowest energy state. Other structures are possible, but these will be higher energy (and consequently less stable) because they expose more non-polar amino acid side-chains to water. The order of the amino acids in a particular protein is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes, and the order of amino acids is referred to as the sequence of the protein. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one-letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. By convention, the first amino acid is at the end with the free amino group and the last amino acid is at the end with the carboxylic acid group. The linear chain of amino acids will spontaneously fold into a three-dimensional shape, which is usually the active form of the protein. Amino acids with nonpolar (hydrophobic) side chains are driven into the central core of the protein because they are repelled by the water. This is known as the hydrophobic effect, and it results in proteins that have amino acids with hydrophilic side chains on the surface of the protein. The folded protein reaches the lowest energy state, which is the most stable, by folding in a way that will optimize the burial of nonpolar amino acid side chains while still leaving the polar groups on the surface. Therefore, the shape of the folded form of the protein depends on the order of the hydrophobic amino acids in the protein. Consider a short 12 amino acid protein consisting of polar (white) and nonpolar (black) amino acids. This polypeptide will fold to bury most of the nonpolar amino acids, removing them from contact with water, giving the lowest energy state. Other structures are possible, but these will be higher energy (and consequently less stable) because they expose more nonpolar amino acid side chains to water. The order of the amino acids in a particular protein is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes, and the order of amino acids is referred to as the sequence of the protein. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one-letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. By convention, the first amino acid is at the end with the free amino group and the last amino acid is at the end with the carboxylic acid group. The linear chain of amino acids will spontaneously fold into a three-dimensional shape, which is usually the active form of the protein. Amino acids with nonpolar (hydrophobic) side chains are driven into the central core of the protein because they are repelled by the water. This is known as the hydrophobic effect, and it results in proteins that have amino acids with hydrophilic side chains on the surface of the protein. The folded protein reaches the lowest energy state, which is the most stable, by folding in a way that will optimize the burial of nonpolar amino acid side chains while still leaving the polar groups on the surface. Therefore, the shape of the folded form of the protein depends on the order of the hydrophobic amino acids in the protein. Consider a short 12 amino acid protein consisting of polar (white) and nonpolar (black) amino acids. This polypeptide will fold to bury most of the nonpolar amino acids, removing them from contact with water, giving the lowest energy state. Other structures are possible, but these will be higher energy (and consequently less stable) because they expose more nonpolar amino acid side chains to water. The ligand binds to the protein by interacting with amino acids in the protein’s binding site. Binding proteins have amino acids in their binding site that are complementary to the ligand. The substrate binds to the enzyme by interacting with amino acids in the binding site. The binding site on enzymes is often referred to as the active site because it contains amino acids that both bind the substrate and aid in its conversion to product. The amino acids in the active site of enzymes play two roles, and sometimes those roles overlap. Some of the amino acids in the active site are responsible for binding of the substrate and others are responsible for facilitating the chemical reaction. The substrate binds to the enzyme by interacting with amino acids in the binding site. The binding site on enzymes is often referred to as the active site because it contains amino acids that both bind the substrate and aid in its conversion to product. The amino acids in the active site of enzymes play two roles, and sometimes those roles overlap. Some of the amino acids in the active site are responsible for binding of the substrate and others are responsible for facilitating the chemical reaction.  A protein is composed of amino acids attached in a linear order. The order of the amino acids is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis.  Proteins take on structure in stages defined by the interactions of amino acids with each other in the primary sequence.  Primary Structure script('reset;select all;backbone off;cartoon off;wireframe off;font echo 12;set echo middle left;echo Chain A:|Val-Leu-Ser-Pro-Ala-Asp-...;color echo black;') is the sequence of amino acids. Hemoglobin has four separate polypeptide chains, the first few amino acids of the first chain (chain A) will appear after clicking the button.  When two amino acids are joined a peptide bond is formed through a condensation reaction. If one knows all of the phi-psi angles of rotation for every amino acid residue in a protein, it is possible to define the secondary structure of that protein. Secondary structure is generally defined by the interaction of amino acids adjacent to each other in the primary sequence. In -helices there are 3.7 amino acids per turn and the carbonyl of the n-th amino acid hydrogen bonds to the amide hydrogen of the n+4 amino acid. Proline is unusual among the amino acids and is technically referred to as an imino acid. It is a cyclic molecule forming a five member ring that closes the linear hydrocarbon side chain with the -amino group.  Proteins contain a mix of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids. Stabilization of the Folded State: The tertiary structure is determined by non-covalent interactions that involve amino acid side chains (side chain and backbone interactions, or side chain-side chain interactions). Amino acid residues involved in these interactions can come from distant parts of the polypeptide chain bringing the chain into a more compact shape. One covalent bond is possible and is formed when two cysteine amino acids (sulfhydryl containing side chain) are close together as a result of tertiary structure formation. When you are ready, check your understanding of nucleic acids by taking the quiz linked below. Two types of nucleic acids specialize in these functions: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA). Like any polymer, nucleic acids are made up of repeating subunits or monomers. The subunits of nucleic acids are called nucleotides. Like any polymer, nucleic acids are made up of repeating subunits or monomers. The subunits of nucleic acids are called nucleotides. Bases are attached to the backbone via the sugars and are equivalent to the “side chains” of amino acids in proteins. In the case of proteins, an amino group is found on one end and a carboxylate group is found on the other end. Bases are attached to the backbone via the sugars and are equivalent to the “side chains” of amino acids in proteins. In the case of proteins, an amino group is found on one end and a carboxylate group is found on the other end. The “message” contained in the order of bases in the mRNA specifies the order of amino acids in a protein. The process of protein synthesis is called translation because the information is converted from one chemical form (nucleic acids) to another (amino acids), analogous to translation from one language to another. Each tRNA carries a particular amino acid and has a special recognition site comprised of three bases that can bind to a specific sequence of bases on mRNA. Base pairing between three bases on tRNA and three bases on mRNA ensures that the correct amino acid is added to the growing protein chain. During translation, ribosome slides along the mRNA and catalyzes formation of peptide bonds between amino acids positioned by the tRNAs. During translation, the information in the mRNA is used to determine the order in which to string together amino acids and build a particular protein. The sequence of bases in the mRNA determines which amino acid will be used in the protein. Every three bases codes for a single amino acid. For example, the mRNA codon UGG codes for the amino acid tryptophan. The nitrogenous bases in nucleic acids absorb UV light at 260nm. Two types of nucleic acids specialize in these functions: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA). The functions of nucleic acids are summarized in the table below. There are different kinds of nucleotides that can be linked to build the different nucleic acids. A phospholipid contains only two fatty acids attached to a glycerol, which in turn is bound to a phosphate group. The fatty acids make up the molecule’s “tail.” The phosphate group carries a negative charge and is therefore hydrophilic. The tail, on the other hand, is made up of nonpolar fatty acids and, like other lipids, is hydrophobic. Thus phospholipids, like fatty acids, are amphipathic. Fats and oils are called triglycerides because they are made of three (“tri”) fatty acids attached to one glycerol. A fatty acid is a carboxylic acid, a charged polar functional group, that contains a long hydrocarbon chain. In one triglyceride there are three fatty acids. All of these can be the same, or there can be two or three different types of fatty acids in a single triglyceride. The fat’s properties depend on the types of fatty acids that are present. The double bonds found in the unsaturated fatty acids have an effect on the overall shape of a triglyceride: unsaturated fatty acids are normally “kinked,” because the double bond prevents free rotation between the two carbons involved. 2), the unsaturated fatty acids lose the tightly stacked formation and become more mobile. At 70oC, the saturated fatty acids also become mobile (Fig.3). Most prokaryotes have a protective layer called the cell wall that is made of peptidoglycan, which is a combination of polysaccharides and amino acids. Most prokaryotes have a protective layer called the cell wall that is made of peptidoglycan, which is a combination of polysaccharides and amino acids. Since the entire process of metabolism is complex, it is useful to discuss the general features of the metabolic pathways that are involved in converting sugars, amino acids, and fats to energy. For example, glucose can be synthesized from pyruvate, fatty acids from acetyl-CoA, and amino acids from intermediates in the TCA cycle.  Living organisms consume food, in the form of carbohydrates, fats, and amino acids, to live. Protein chains (polypeptides) are produced by linking together relatively simple amino acid monomers. In one polypeptide, thousands of amino acids may be strung together, and several different polypeptides may fold and bind to each other to form a large and complex protein molecule. It takes a very large protein molecule and breaks it down into several smaller polypeptides, then dismantles the polypeptides to yield individual amino acids. You already learned about PKU, a pleiotropic disorder caused by defects in a single gene coding for an enzyme that converts the amino acid phenylalanine to tyrosine. A sequence of three nucleotides in an mRNA molecule that specifies which amino acid should be added to a growing polypeptide chain. Due to degeneracy in the genetic code, more than one codon can code for the same amino acid. Binding of one nucleic acid chain to another. In this module you also considered how changes in DNA (mutations, genotype) can affect amino acid sequence of the proteins and their function (phenotype). In this module you also considered how changes in DNA (mutations, genotype) can affect amino acid sequence of the proteins and their function (phenotype). The insulin gene contains instructions for assembling the protein insulin from individual amino acids. Changing the sequence of nucleotides in the DNA molecule can change the amino acids in the final protein, leading to protein malfunction. Changes in the amount of protein produced or the sequence of amino acids in the protein can affect the function. Changes in the amount of protein produced or the sequence of amino acids in the protein can affect the function. Translation involves the conversion of a sequence of RNA to a corresponding sequence of amino acids. To perform the conversion a code is needed to translate from the four nucleotides (AUGC) of mRNA to the 20 naturally occurring amino acids. The question then is what combination of nucleotides can code for at least twenty different amino acids? Not enough to code for 20 different amino acids. Clearly this is enough to code for the 20 naturally-occurring amino acids. In fact, the abundance of codes means that there is redundancy or degeneracy in the code with more than one triplet code representing a single amino acid. The remaining 60 codons represented the 20 amino acids. Having elucidated the entire code it was found that for many of the amino acids, the first two nucleotides in the sequence defined the amino acid with the third nucleotide being any of the four nucleotides. For example the codon for the amino acid leucine is CUX where the X represents any one of the four nucleotides, and the codon for the amino acid valine is GUX. This also demonstrates the fact that a single amino acid can be coded by several triplet codes but a triplet code only represents a single amino acid. This triplet code for converting the sequence of mRNA to a sequence of amino acids is referred to as the Genetic Code. The process by which the correct amino acid is added to the correct tRNA is referred to as the charging of the tRNA. The ribosome translates the RNA sequence into a protein sequence, using three nucleotide bases to encode each amino acid. Just as translators of books change information from one language to another, the cellular process of translation changes information from the language of nucleic acids (using nucleotides as the monomers) into the language of proteins (using amino acids as monomers). The ribosome translates the RNA sequence into a protein sequence, using three nucleotide bases to encode each amino acid. Just as translators of books change information from one language to another, the cellular process of translation changes information from the language of nucleic acids (using nucleotides as the monomers) into the language of proteins (using amino acids as monomers). Errors can happen during translation if incorrect amino acids are inserted into a growing protein, or if translation is terminated too soon. One good way to do this is to use a Table so that all the codons, amino acids, and position numbers are aligned in consistent columns. Each three letter word carries some meaning – equivalent to each amino acid being encoded by a three-letter codon in DNA. In this rare instance, there would be no frame shift but a single amino acid would be missing from the encoded protein: Errors can happen during translation if incorrect amino acids are inserted into a growing protein, or if translation is terminated too soon. Also given is the amino acid sequence and the amino acid position; notice how each is aligned to the DNA template sequence. In humans, a mutation can occur in this gene resulting in a change in the hemoglobin amino acid sequence, and ultimately, a change in the protein shape and function. Each three letter word carries some meaning – equivalent to each amino acid being encoded by a three-letter codon in DNA. In this rare instance, there would be no frame shift but a single amino acid would be missing from the encoded protein: The sequence of amino acids in a protein is specified (or encoded) by the sequence of bases in the nucleic acid. The sequence of bases in the mRNA determines which amino acid will be used in the protein. Every three bases encode for a single amino acid. The genetic code table below shows all possible combinations of three bases and the corresponding amino acids that the codons encode. For example, the mRNA codon UGG encodes for the amino acid tryptophan. Note that there are 64 codons and only 20 common amino acids. Three of the codons do not specify amino acids, but instead signal the end of translation; these are called stop codons. The remaining 61 codons encode for 20 amino acids. Of these, the codon for the amino acid methionine, AUG, has a dual role. The genetic code is redundant; some amino acids are specified by multiple codons. This redundancy will become important when we try to predict how changes in nucleotide sequences affect the amino acid sequences of proteins. Remarkably, the genetic code table is almost universal, meaning that most organisms, from bacteria to humans, specify the same amino acids using the same codons. This table summarizes the amino acids that result from each codon on mRNA. The genetic code table allows us to convert the information contained in a nucleic acid into an amino acid sequence. In the cell, we need a molecule that connects codons and amino acids. Each tRNA also carries a specific amino acid. The tRNA binds mRNA via base pairing and brings the correct amino acids to the growing polypeptide chain. The ribosome catalyzes the formation of peptide bonds between the amino acids. To summarize, three types of RNA carry out distinct roles in translation: mRNA encodes the protein, tRNA brings amino acids to mRNA, and rRNA is a component of the ribosome required for catalysis. The sequence of amino acids in a protein is specified (or encoded) by the sequence of bases in the nucleic acid. The sequence of bases in the mRNA determines which amino acid will be used in the protein. Every three bases encode for a single amino acid. The genetic code table below shows all possible combinations of three bases and the corresponding amino acids that the codons encode. For example, the mRNA codon UGG encodes for the amino acid tryptophan. Note that there are 64 codons and only 20 common amino acids. Three of the codons do not specify amino acids, but instead signal the end of translation; these are called stop codons. The remaining 61 codons encode for 20 amino acids. Of these, the codon for the amino acid methionine, AUG, has a dual role. The genetic code is redundant; some amino acids are specified by multiple codons. This redundancy will become important when we try to predict how changes in nucleotide sequences affect the amino acid sequences of proteins. Remarkably, the genetic code table is almost universal, meaning that most organisms, from bacteria to humans, specify the same amino acids using the same codons. This table summarizes the amino acids that result from each codon on mRNA. The genetic code table allows us to convert the information contained in a nucleic acid into an amino acid sequence. In the cell, we need a molecule that connects codons and amino acids. Each tRNA also carries a specific amino acid. The tRNA binds mRNA via base pairing and brings the correct amino acids to the growing polypeptide chain. The ribosome catalyzes the formation of peptide bonds between the amino acids. To summarize, three types of RNA carry out distinct roles in translation: mRNA encodes the protein, tRNA brings amino acids to mRNA, and rRNA is a component of the ribosome required for catalysis. The coding region of the gene (and the coding region of mRNA) has to start with a start codon: ATG in DNA and AUG in mRNA code for the amino acid methionine, Met. The sequence between start and stop codons should contain nucleotides in multiples of three, encoding the sequence of amino acids in the protein. The coding region of the gene (and the coding region of mRNA) has to start with a start codon: ATG in DNA and AUG in mRNA code for the amino acid methionine, Met. The sequence between start and stop codons should contain nucleotides in multiples of three, encoding the sequence of amino acids in the protein. Any environmental influence that can damage DNA has the potential to create mutations that can result in changing amino acid sequence of a protein or regulatory information. Mutations in regulatory regions of the gene can lead to increased or decreased protein production without affecting the amino acid sequence of the protein. The enzymes for the synthesis of the amino acid tryptophan are contained in the Trp operon. The trp repressor binds the amino acid tryptophan, the end product of the biosynthesis of tryptophan (trp). The enzymes for the synthesis of the amino acid tryptophan are contained in the Trp operon. The trp repressor binds the amino acid tryptophan, the end product of the biosynthesis of tryptophan (trp). The synthetic gene provides the information that specifies the order of the amino acids in HuGH.  A synthetic gene is made that can be translated into the amino acid sequence of the human growth hormone. HuGH is a protein made of 191 amino acids.  A synthetic gene is chemically synthesized using the known amino acid sequence of the target protein (HuGH) to determine the required DNA sequence. In cases where the genetic code is redundant (more than one codon specifies a single amino acid), those codons preferred by bacteria are selected when designing the synthetic DNA. The first step in producing HuGH is to generate a synthetic gene whose nucleotide sequence codes for the amino acid sequence of the growth hormone. This sequence would contain the start codon, codons representing each amino acid in the growth hormone, and a stop codon. To do this, the known amino acid sequence for human growth hormone must be “back-translated” to a nucleic acid sequence. Since most amino acids can be coded for by more than one mRNA codon, this process is ambiguous. Because the genetic code is universal it would be possible to use the human codons to encode the sequence of amino acids. There are four main types of macromolecules that you will be learning about in this course: carbohydrates, nucleic acids, lipids, and proteins. For example, glucose is a monomer that makes up polysaccharide starch, and amino acids are monomers (monomeric subunits) that make up proteins (aka polypeptides). Fatty acids are unbranched hydrocarbons that terminate with a single carboxyl functional group. The fatty acids are generally 16-22 carbons long and can be both saturated and unsaturated. Genes are located on DNA stands, and each gene is composed of a specific nucleotide sequence that codes for the amino acid sequence of a protein. The difference between the “R” group is what distinguishes one amino acid from another. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. An amino acid with a side chain that contains a ring structure with conjugated double bonds. Two amino acids, phenylalanine and tyrosine, contain the benzene ring. Amino acids with acidic side chains contain a carboxyl group on the side chain. Amino acids with basic side chains contain basic nitrogen-containing groups. There are four main types of biological macromolecules (sometimes referred to as biomolecules or biomacromolecules) that you will be learning about in this course: carbohydrates, nucleic acids, lipids, and proteins. For example, glucose is a monomer that makes up polysaccharide starch, and amino acids are monomers that make up proteins. Binding of one nucleic acid chain to another. An amino acid with non-polar side chains contain, primarily, hydrocarbons and no polar functional groups containing electronegative atoms. Note that the term “non-polar” refers only to the side chain, while the amino acid as a whole is charged at physiological pH due to the carboxyl and amino groups. A covalent bond that links amino acids together to form proteins. Produced when the carboxyl group of one amino acid reacts with the amino group of another amino acid. An amino acid with polar side chains contain polar uncharged groups, for example amide and hydroxyl. Examples are the hydroxyl group (-OH), carboxylic acids, and amino groups(-NH3+). Organic macromolecules made up of amino acids connected by peptide bonds. Codon in the mRNA that represents the first amino acid to be incorporated. The type of RNA, directly involved in protein synthesis, that transports amino acids to ribosomes to be incorporated into an emerging protein. The information in the RNA (a nucleic acid) is converted to a new chemical form, amino acids. There are four classes of biological macromolecules: protiens, lipids, nucleic acids and polysaccharides/complex sugars. For example, starch is a biological macromolecule made by plants from smaller subunits, glucose; all proteins are made of amino acids, and nucleic acids are made from nucleotides. Acids taste sour. A sequence of three nucleotides in an mRNA molecule that specifies which amino acid should be added to a growing polypeptide chain. Due to degeneracy in the genetic code, more than one codon can code for the same amino acid. Both of the alpha and carbonyl carbon are found in all amino acids. Amino acids with acidic side chains contain a carboxyl group on the side chain. Amino acids with a side chain that contains a ring structure with conjugated double bonds. Two amino acids, phenylalanine and tyrosine, contain the benzene ring. Amino acids with basic side chains contain basic nitrogen-containing groups. Amino acids with non-polar side chains contain, primarily, hydrocarbons and no polar functional groups containing electronegative atoms. Note that the term “nonpolar” refers only to the side chain, while the amino acid as a whole is charged at physiological pH due to the carboxyl and amino groups. Amino acids with polar side chains contain polar uncharged groups, for example amide and hydroxyl.

7. [u'molecules', u'molecule', u'water']
  These are generally termed inhibitors if the binding of the second molecules causes a loss of enzyme activity (reduced velocity at any given substrate concentration). These are generally termed inhibitors if the binding of the second molecules causes a loss of enzyme activity (reduced velocity at any given substrate concentration).  M + O <=> [MO] This equation describes an association of two molecules. Many proteins bind to small molecules called ligands. Some proteins are enzymes that bind small molecules to convert them into other molecules. Some proteins act as transports by binding small molecules and ferrying them throughout the organism, or by moving them across lipid membranes. After studying about the binding of small molecules to proteins, students will be able to: In this module we will use all of the concepts previously introduced in the section on biological chemistry to study the interaction, or binding, of small molecules to proteins. Although ligands and substrates are usually small molecules, proteins themselves can be ligands and substrates for other proteins/enzymes. Following some simple rules it is possible to predict how two molecules might interact. By learning about the characteristics of the subset atoms, and a limited set of functional groups found in biological molecules, you will be able to identify, and predict many of the reactions that can take place, understand and predict the physical properties of the molecules made by these reactions, and develop an understanding of why a process occurs as it does in a cell.  We start with an understanding that the cellular environment is essentially aqueous (water) based, and thus, we will begin with a discussion of the chemistry of water as it relates to bonding, pH and temperature control. The presence of polar covalent bonds in water and in other molecules containing electronegative atoms puts these molecules in a family of molecules referred to as being polar. We will return to polar bonds in water and their consequences in the "Importance of Water" section. Carbon is a major component of nearly all biological molecules. Living organisms get the required elements from outside and constantly rearrange these elements to build their own molecules. Carbon is a major component of nearly all biological molecules. It is impossible to superimpose these two mirror images, consequently they are distinct molecules. Instructions: Try to determine the chirality of glyceraldehyde, one ot the simplest organic molecules found in biology. In water molecules surround the ions to form polar interactions to satisfy the charges on the ions. Thus the ions become encapsulated by water spheres, which are called spheres of hydration.  Previously, water was described as having a high dielectric constant. This property that is a measure of the polarity of the covalent bond within the molecule accounts for the separation of ions by polar molecules such as water. Thus water with a high dielectric constant decreases the attraction between opposite charges. Because polar molecules are generally water soluble, they are referred to as being hydrophilic, or water-loving.  The final type of interaction occurs between neutral, hydrophobic , or water-fearing, molecules. These molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Similarly, biological membranes are stabilized by the exclusion of water between layers of lipids as we will see later.  The hydrophobic effect does not involve direct bonding between the non-polar molecules, it is an entropy driven process. When a hydrophobic molecule is truly dissolved in water, the water forms a highly ordered ice-like shell around the compound. When the hydrophobic molecules contact each during separation of the aqueous and non-polar phases, the ordered water is released and become highly disordered. The increase in disorder of the released water molecules is responsible for the spontaneous assembly of many biological systems, such as proteins and membranes. Mixed Non-polar/polar molecules: Of course, there are instances where even molecules with electronegative atoms will not be water soluble. Amphipathic molecules are molecules that have a distinct non-polar, or hydrophobic region, and a distinct polar region. These molecules do not form true solution is water. Detergents and long-chain carboxylic acids are examples of amphipathic molecules. As anyone who has done a "belly buster" knows, breaking a large surface area of water is extremely difficult (and painful!  When NaCl dissolves in water, each atom becomes surrounded by at least 20 water molecules. You will explore what happens to molecules that only partially dissociate, or weak electrolytes, in water in the next module. It is impossible to superimpose these two mirror images, consequently they are distinct molecules. Instructions: Try to determine the chirality of glyceraldehyde, one ot the simplest organic molecules found in biology. In water molecules surround the ions to form polar interactions to satisfy the charges on the ions. Thus the ions become encapsulated by water spheres, which are called spheres of hydration.  Previously, water was described as having a high dielectric constant. This property that is a measure of the polarity of the covalent bond within the molecule accounts for the separation of ions by polar molecules such as water. Thus water with a high dielectric constant decreases the attraction between opposite charges. Because polar molecules are generally water soluble, they are referred to as being hydrophilic, or water-loving. The final type of interaction occurs between neutral, hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules. These molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Similarly, biological membranes are stabilized by the exclusion of water between layers of lipids as we will see later. The hydrophobic effect does not involve direct bonding between the non-polar molecules, it is an entropy driven process. When a hydrophobic molecule is truly dissolved in water, the water forms a highly ordered ice-like shell around the compound. When the hydrophobic molecules contact each during separation of the aqueous and non-polar phases, the ordered water is released and become highly disordered. The increase in disorder of the released water molecules is responsible for the spontaneous assembly of many biological systems, such as proteins and membranes. Mixed Non-polar/polar molecules: Of course, there are instances where even molecules with electronegative atoms will not be water soluble. Amphipathic molecules are molecules that have a distinct non-polar, or hydrophobic region, and a distinct polar region. These molecules do not form true solution is water. Detergents and long-chain carboxylic acids are examples of amphipathic molecules. As anyone who has done a "belly buster" knows, breaking a large surface area of water is extremely difficult (and painful!  When NaCl dissolves in water, each atom becomes surrounded by at least 20 water molecules. You will explore what happens to molecules that only partially dissociate, or weak electrolytes, in water in the next module. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism The molecules in each group all have common properties.  If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, use the link below. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism The molecules in each group all have common properties.  If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, use the link below. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism The molecules in each group all have common properties. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally.  If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, use the link below. By the end of this exploration of water, students will be able to: One property derived from the special properties of oxygen is that water is a polar molecule. Water Molecular Structures In pure water, the partially negative oxygen of one molecule attracts the partially positive hydrogens from another water molecules to form a non-covalent bonding interaction called a hydrogen bond. A water molecule attracts four other water molecules towards it: one each to the two free pairs of electrons in the valence shell, and one each to the hydrogens covalently bonded to the oxygen. The partially positive hydrogens associate with the free electron pairs from other water molecules, while the partially negative charge on the oxygen's free electron pairs associate with the partially positive hydrogens from another water molecule. Use the 3-D JMOL image below to examine the structure of an ice crystal and observe the orientation of water molecules in the crystal.  In the previous module you learned about a limited set of functional groups on molecules found in biological systems and some of their properties. The cell exploits these properties to control intracellular pH, the ionic state of molecules and the activity level of molecules. At equilibrium, the number of individual molecules will fluctuate, but on average, a balance, or equilibrium mixture, is maintained. For the purposes of this course, we will use the approximation that Ka is the same for all molecules with the same functional group. At equilibrium, the number of individual molecules will fluctuate, but on average, a balance, or equilibrium mixture, is maintained. For the purposes of this course, we will use the approximation that Ka is the same for all molecules with the same functional group. Water molecules exist in an equilibrium between a complete water molecule and the dissociated proton H+ and conjugate base OH-. When half of the molecules are charged (the pH equals the pKa) the net charge of molecule is 0.5 (in this case –0.5 since a carboxyl can either be zero charge or –1). Some molecules are weak electrolytes and exist in equilibrium between the starting molecule and its dissociated parts. For molecules that are weak electrolytes and act as acids, the ratio of the dissociated parts and the parent molecule is a constant in neutral water for each separate structure. Many molecules are weak electrolytes and exist in an equilibrium (indicated by in the general equation below) between the starting molecule and its dissociated parts. Many molecules are weak electrolytes and exist in an equilibrium (indicated by in the general equation below) between the starting molecule and its dissociated parts. When placed in water, acetic acid dissociates into the conjugate base, acetate, and a proton. In the Learn By Doing you will explore the equilibrium of an acid dissociation in pure water. In this simulation you can assume the concentration is molecules per beaker and thus the concentration will be equal to the total number of molecules in the experiment.  One of the simplest of the biological molecules is the carbohydrate. The name is descriptive of the character of this class of molecules since they all have the general formula of a hydrated carbon.  We are starting with this class of molecules because they are the basis for the classical naming of the enantiomers encountered in biological molecules.  One of the simplest of the biological molecules is the carbohydrate. The name is descriptive of the character of this class of molecules since they all have the general formula of a hydrated carbon.  We are starting with this class of molecules because they are the basis for the classical naming of the enantiomers encountered in biological molecules. In this reaction, a molecule of water is lost during the combining of the two glucose molecules to form the glycosidic bond. The reverse of this reaction, requiring the addition of a water molecule, is referred to as a hydrolysis reaction. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. These polymers are very large molecules composed of smaller units joined by covalent bonds using a common set of chemical reactions. These polymers are very large molecules composed of smaller units joined by covalent bonds using a common set of chemical reactions. These polymers are very large molecules composed of smaller units joined by covalent bonds using a common set of chemical reactions. Hydrophobic molecules contain no or very few highly electronegative atoms and do not form strong bonds with water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Hydrophobic molecules contain no or very few highly electronegative atoms and do not form strong bonds with water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. The plasma membrane is selective allowing only specific molecules to cross. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. The hydrophobic core impedes the diffusion of hydrophilic structures, such as ions and polar molecules but allows hydrophobic molecules, which can dissolve in the membrane, to cross it with ease. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. The hydrophobic core impedes the diffusion of hydrophilic structures, such as ions and polar molecules but allows hydrophobic molecules, which can dissolve in the membrane, to cross it with ease. The lipid environment is defined by the family of molecules that are characterized by their hydrophobic nature and their common metabolic origin. Three members of the lipid family of molecules will be discussed in this course: fats (triacylglcerol), phospholipids, and steroids. Lipid molecules are slightly soluble to insoluble in water. Lipids are hydrophobic because the molecules consist of long, 16-18 carbon, hydrocarbon chains (or backbones) with only a small amount of oxygen containing groups.  Fats are synthesized from two different classes of molecules: fatty acids and alcohol. When phospholipids are in an aqueous solution they will self assemble into micelles or bilayers, structures that exclude water molecules from the hydrophobic tails while keeping the hydrophilic head in contact with the aqueous solution. The phospholipid membrane allows free diffusion of some small molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and small hydrocarbons, but not charged ions, polar molecules or other larger molecules such as glucose. In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against a gradient. Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require channels or ports in the membrane through which the generally non-permeable molecules can pass. ion channels) have structural similarities while maintaining their ability to discriminate between molecules. Antiports transport two different molecules through the membrane in opposite directions. Only some small molecules and ions can cross the membrane freely. For all other molecules there are specific proteins that allow molecules to cross the membrane. The channels and pores provide a means by which molecules can pass directly through the membrane to the cytoplasm. Non-specific uptake of molecules occurs by phagocytosis (large particles and macromolecules) and pinocytosis (water soluble small molecules). The highly positively charged PTD, attached to its ‘cargo’, has a tight electrostatic (ionic) interaction with certain molecules, which are ubiquitous to all cells, in the plasma membrane. Much as the channels and pores discriminate between specific molecules and their transport through the membrane, specificity and discrimination are seen during endocytosis using specific membrane bound receptors. This targeting defines the uptake of specific molecules or assemblies by specific cells. The channels and pores provide a means by which molecules can pass directly through the membrane to the cytoplasm. Non-specific uptake of molecules occurs by phagocytosis (large particles and macromolecules) and pinocytosis (water soluble small molecules). The highly positively charged PTD, attached to its ‘cargo’, has a tight electrostatic (ionic) interaction with certain molecules, which are ubiquitous to all cells, in the plasma membrane. Cells must be able to move polar molecules such as nutrients and ions across the lipid bilayer of the membrane in order to carry out life processes. But the molecules will still move spontaneously down a concentration from high to low concentration. To allow the polar molecules, which are not soluble in the lipid bilayer, to pass across the hydrophobic barrier it is necessary to provide ports, channels or holes through the membrane. These channels can either allow the molecules to move freely according to their concentration differences or they can be gated channels that control the movement of the polar molecules according to the needs of the cell. The channels facilitate the movement of molecules that otherwise would not be spontaneously permeable to the lipid bilayer. The process of moving impermeable molecules across a membrane using channels or pores is referred to as facilitated diffusion. Because the molecules are moving down a concentration gradient the process is driven by simple diffusion. Because the plasma membrane (lipid bilayer) is significantly less permeable to ions than water, the establishment of an equal concentration of the ions on either side of the membrane is accomplished by the net movement of water toward the higher concentration of ions to reduce the concentration. This movement of water in response to an imbalance of solute (ion) is referred to as osmosis. Three different conditions may exist in the relationship between the solute (ion) concentration and solvent (water) concentration across a membrane. In an isotonic solution, the concentration of the solute and therefore solvent water (water potential) is the same on both sides. A hypotonic solution is one whose solute concentration is lower (water concentration is higher [i.e. In this case, the more permeable solvent, water, would flow spontaneously out of the cell toward the low water potential to dilute the solute molecules and create an equal concentration of solute molecules on both sides of the membrane. Both large and small molecules follow the same general principal of diffusion. Molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following Brownian motion. As three different molecules diffuse to equilibrium in the following simulation, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage. Of the first two types of molecules, the first type might include a molecule such as cholesterol which has some solubility in water but is highly soluble in the non-polar environment of the lipid bilayer and thus will freely pass into the hydrophobic environment of the membrane, distribute freely in the membrane and then some fraction will dissolve in the aqueous environment of the cytoplasm. Examples of such molecules are the sodium and chloride ions. As a general rule, charged molecules are much less permeable to the lipid bilayer. Both large and small molecules follow the same general principal of diffusion. Molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following Brownian motion. As three different molecules diffuse to equilibrium they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage in the following animation. Of the first two types of molecules, the first type might include a molecule such as cholesterol which has some solubility in water but is highly soluble in the non-polar environment of the lipid bilayer and thus will freely pass into the hydrophobic environment of the membrane, distribute freely in the membrane and then some fraction will dissolve in the aqueous environment of the cytoplasm. Examples of such molecules are the sodium and chloride ions. As a general rule, charged molecules are much less permeable to the lipid bilayer. Much as the channels and pores discriminate between specific molecules and their transport through the membrane, specificity and discrimination are seen during endocytosis using specific membrane bound receptors. This targeting defines the uptake of specific molecules or assemblies by specific cells. We have seen how some small molecule pass freely, but most molecules are selectively brought into the cells using transporter proteins. We have seen how some small molecule pass freely, but most molecules are selectively brought into the cells using transporter proteins. A symport transports two different molecules across the membrane in the same direction in a cooperative manner. Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require channels or ports in the membrane through which the generally non-permeable molecules can pass. ion channels) have structural similarities while maintaining their ability to discriminate between molecules. The animation below shows how the glucose transporter molecule is structured with a spiral channel that allows the glucose molecules to passively navigate the channel and move through the membrane. While water molecules are small enough to move through the membranes, the Gap Junctions facilitate that movement and the movement of molecules up to 1500 daltons (approximately a 15 amino acid peptide) but not larger molecules. The grooves are water and ion filled channels on the side of the double helix. The grooves are water and ion filled channels on the side of the double helix.  Use this as a reference for the important functional groups and representative molecules for each group. Inside each functional group there are multiple examples of the group in actual molecules. The molecules are represented as text and in 3-D. The minor groove is quite narrow (approximately 12 Angstroms across) and while the edges of the bases may be accessible to solvent and small molecules, they are generally not accessible to larger molecules. In this way a number of complex compounds are converted to a common intermediate, reducing the number of unique steps in the degradation of complex molecules. This strategy allows the use of common simple starting materials for the synthesis of a number of complex molecules. This is equivalent to pumping water up hill to fill a reservoir.  Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other.  Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other.  Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. This reaction type, which has a number of idiosyncratic names in different pathways, adds water to a double bond. These enzyme are responsible for the synthesis of more complex molecules from simpler substrates. Two ATP molecules are produced/glucose. Two NADH molecules are produced. Two ATP molecules are produced/glucose. Two NADH molecules are produced. This generates a total of 3 ATP molecules since there are three ADP/ATP binding sites on the F1 domain, one associated with each - subunit. These complexes remove electrons from NADH or FADH2 molecules that were generated by oxidative processes in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. This generates a total of 3 ATP molecules since there are three ADP/ATP binding sites on the F1 domain, one associated with each - subunit. These complexes remove electrons from NADH or FADH2 molecules that were generated by oxidative processes in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. This is especially true in the case of the hormones glucagon and epinephrine where additional amplification occurs due to the production of a large number of cAMP molecules per signalling event. The excess ATP can be used to synthesize glucose and other molecules if needed. This process releases acetyl-CoA molecules from the fatty acid, generating NADH and FADH2. This process releases acetyl-CoA molecules from the fatty acid, generating NADH and FADH2.  An organism that must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms. Humans obtain nutrients from the food we eat and the water we drink. The attraction of water molecules to molecules other than water. Capillary action (in which water will spontaneously climb up the walls of a tube without pumping) is a result of the adhesion of water molecules with the surface of a tube containing the water.  Solutions in which water is the solvent. Liquid water is cohesive and forms spherical droplets because of its hydrogen bonds which attract the individual water molecules to each other.  Chemical bonds that form molecules and are a result of sharing of electrons; electrons can be shared equally (non-polar covalent) or unequally (polar covalent). Substances that dissolve in or are attracted to water. “Water-loving.” Ionic and polar substances are hydrophilic. If the cereal is burned (a chemical reaction), its molecules will react with oxygen gas. The energy in the same sandwich can be measured by burning it, capturing the released heat in water, and measuring how much the water’s temperature increases as a result. Humans and other consumer must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms. Producers such as plants do not eat or absorb complex food molecules. Nutrient cycling traces how consumers and producers interact to alter the chemistry of the air, water, and soil. Structo needs a part that will allow it to exchange gases between its blood and the surrounding water. Maybe it needs an internal chamber so water can flow across the gill in a protected place... This is important because changes in pH can cause molecules like enzymes to change their shapes. Enzymes break down food molecules, help build a muscle proteins, help destroy toxins, and much more. Enzymes break down food molecules, help build muscle proteins, can destroy toxins, and much more. Atoms combine to form molecules, and certain molecules come together in a very specific way to form special structures called cells. Atoms combine to form molecules, and certain molecules come together in a very specific way to form special structures called cells. Many molecules that are biologically important are macromolecules, which are technically polymers. Atoms combine to form molecules, and certain molecules come together in a very specific way to form special structures called cells. Then you will take a closer look at a very special molecule, water. Then you will take a closer look at a very special molecule, water. Macromolecules are large, biologically important molecules. A cell is essentially a tiny droplet of water and other molecules enclosed by a fluid “skin” or membrane. Macromolecules are biologically important molecules, and they are technically polymers. A cell is essentially a tiny droplet of water and other molecules enclosed by a fluid “skin” or membrane. Instead it circulates among living organisms, soil, water, and rocks. Plants and algae take up phosphate dissolved in water and use it to make organic compounds. Bacteria and fungi decompose dead organic matter and return phosphates to the soil and water, completing the loop. Instead it circulates among living organisms, soil, water, and rocks. Plants and algae take up phosphate dissolved in water and use it to make organic compounds. Bacteria and fungi decompose dead organic matter and return phosphates to the soil and water, completing the loop. Over time, phosphorus tends to follow the flow of water downhill. Fertilizers run off farm fields and enter water bodies directly; human and animal wastes also deliver excess nitrogen and phosphorus to water bodies. These turn water pea-soup green and can lead to fish kills and other negative effects. Water is an input to photosynthesis and a waste product of aerobic respiration, so it is biotically cycled. Land plants play an important role in the water cycle. They take up water through their roots and release it as vapor through tiny holes in their leaves called stomata. This process, called transpiration, greatly accelerates the transfer of water from soil to the atmosphere. Humans also influence the water cycle by damming rivers and by pumping groundwater. We slow the return of water to the ocean and redistribute it to meet our needs; by far the largest human use of water is crop irrigation. These compounds dissolve in water and are absorbed directly (algae) or taken up through the roots (plants). Only about 10% is stored as calories in the molecules (fats, proteins, etc.) After you eat and digest a tomato, some of its molecules are broken down into their subunits. Bacteria and fungi that colonize dead material and absorb food molecules from it are called decomposers. We must also consider nonliving, or abiotic, components of the environment: rocks, water, gases in the air, chemicals in soil and water, light, temperature, wind, and waves. In the process, its large organic molecules are broken down to simpler inorganic molecules. Mountain glaciers supply summer melt water to major river systems in Asia and elsewhere; glacier retreat may reduce the reliability of water supplies for irrigation and other uses. Even if rainfall does not decline, warmer temperatures lead directly to drier soils and lower water levels by speeding up evaporation and boosting the rate at which plants use water. Some of the light is reflected back into space, but much of it is absorbed by land and water. Windmills and water mills were also used as a source of power. Some cultures developed extensive water control systems for irrigation of crops. Examples are diverse and widespread, involving many different aspects of the atmosphere, land, and water. Water molecules form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules. The hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules give water some important properties that enable life. One such property is the polar nature of water, which makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like glucose. Hydrophobic nonpolar compounds do not interact with water because of hydrophobic effect; the ordering of water molecules around the dissolved nonpolar molecules is very unfavorable. Before you move on to learn more about biological molecules like proteins, take some time to assess your understanding of the learning outcomes from this unit. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism. Water molecules form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules. The hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules give water some important properties that enable life. One such property is the polar nature of water, which makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like glucose. Hydrophobic nonpolar compounds do not interact with water because of hydrophobic effect; the ordering of water molecules around the dissolved nonpolar molecules is very unfavorable. Before you move on to learn more about biological molecules like proteins, take some time to assess your understanding of the learning outcomes from this unit. Water molecules form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules. The hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules give water some important properties that enable life. One such property is the polar nature of water, which makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like glucose. Hydrophobic nonpolar compounds do not interact with water because of hydrophobic effect; the ordering of water molecules around the dissolved nonpolar molecules is very unfavorable. Before you move on to learn more about biological molecules like proteins, take some time to assess your understanding of the learning outcomes from this unit. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism. Two important small organic molecules that you should be familiar with are the carbohydrate glucose and the nucleic acid ATP. The attraction of water molecules to molecules other than water. Capillary action (in which water will spontaneously climb up the walls of a tube without pumping) is a result of the adhesion of water molecules with the surface of a tube containing the water.  Solutions in which water is the solvent. substances that when dissolved in water form an excess of hydronium ions (H3O+). Liquid water is cohesive and forms spherical droplets because of its hydrogen bonds which attract the individual water molecules to each other.  Chemical bonds that form molecules and are a result of sharing of electrons; electrons can be shared equally (non-polar covalent) or unequally (polar covalent). Substances that dissolve in or are attracted to water. Hydrophilic (from Greek meaning "water-loving") refers to molecules that are water soluble. Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. substances that when dissolved in water reduce the concentration of hydronium (H3O+) ions. A polysaccharide that is stored in the liver and is composed of glucose molecules linked together. A branching polysaccharide consisting of linked glucose molecules. Starch can be broken down into individual glucose molecules that can be used to build ATP. process of combining an acid with a base, in which the hydrogen ion/proton (H+) that was associated with water (as a hydronium ion, H3O+) combines with the hydroxide ion (OH-) to produce water (HOH). Many organic molecules also contain oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur. Cells consist of an aqueous solution, containing ions and small organic molecules, larger macromolecules such as carbohydrates, proteins, and nucleic acids, and closed compartments defined by lipid membranes. Two important small organic molecules that you should be familiar with are the carbohydrate glucose and the nucleic acid ATP. This weak interaction allows molecules to form specific, but reversible connections. The polar nature of water makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like ATP or glucose. The ability of water to form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules has important biological consequences, such as reducing the density of ice such that it floats. Can you describe the other biologically significant properties of water? Small molecules are brought together to form more complex biological macromolecules. Water is a very important molecule in living systems and it has some unique properties that will be discussed. Even air is a mixture of molecules. Even air is a mixture of molecules. A chemical reactions produce one or more products resulting from a chemical change that transforms a set of molecules. As with atomic weights, it is convenient to use the weight of a mole of molecules. The weight of a mole of methane molecules is 16 grams. Molecules can be much more complex than methane. When drawing molecules, it is important to make sure that each atom has a full outer shell. Structural Formulas: There are many different ways to draw molecules. Sometimes such molecules are drawn using skeletal formulas, also known as shorthand formulas. As with atomic weights it is convenient to use the weight of a mole of molecules. The weight of a mole of methane molecules is 16 grams Molecules can be much more complex than methane. When drawing molecules, it is important to make sure that each atom has a full outer shell. Structural Formulas: There are many different ways to draw molecules. Sometimes such molecules are drawn using skeletal formulas, also known as shorthand formulas. These molecules can become much more complex. Throughout this biology course, you will be studying about many different molecules. Throughout this course, you will be studying many different molecules. Finally, water behaves the way it does because of the hydrogen bonds that attract water molecules to each other. It is the hydrogen bonding of the water molecules that gives water many of its unique and life-sustaining properties. Both oxygen and nitrogen are molecules with a high electronegativity. It is the hydrogen bonding of the water molecules that give water many of its unique and life-sustaining properties. In the next module, we’ll take a closer look at water, which is one of the most biologically important molecules on the planet. Carbon is a major component of nearly all biological molecules. Small molecules are brought together to form more complex biological macromolecules. We will also discuss water as it has unique properties and is a very important molecule in living systems. To make sense of how cells work, we must constantly return to their parts (molecules) and the interactions among them. We will take a closer look at water, whose unique properties make it a very important molecule in living systems. By learning about the characteristics of this subset of atoms, and a limited set of functional groups found in biological molecules, you will be able to identify, and predict many of the reactions that can take place in cells, understand and predict the physical properties of the molecules made by these reactions, and develop an understanding of why a process occurs as it does in a cell. We will then examine the chemistry of water as it relates to bonding. We will take a closer look at water, because the cellular environment is essentially aqueous (water) based. Have you ever wondered why scientists spend time looking for water on other planets? Here on Earth, water is one of the most abundant molecules. The water content of our bodies and our cells ranges from 70 to 95 percent. There are four properties of water that make it such a unique and important molecule:  Water is an excellent solvent and can dissolve a wide range of substances. Water is cohesive. Water’s temperature tends to remain stable. Solid water (ice) is less dense than liquid water. These properties of water are due to the hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules. Some molecules are hydrophobic, which literally means fear (phobia) of water (hydro). These molecules do not like to dissolve in water. When hydrophobic molecules are mixed with water, they will tend to separate into distinct phases (or layers), one containing water and the other containing the hydrophobic molecules. The formation of the water cage is unfavorable, because it requires water molecules to become ordered. Ordering anything requires energy, whether it is a cage of water molecules surrounding a nonpolar molecule, or your messy dorm room. The energy cost of ordering water molecules around nonpolar compounds is so high that they are forced out of the water, leading to a separation of phases; oil and water don’t mix because of the hydrophobic effect. Most biological molecules contain both polar and nonpolar regions. Their behavior in water depends on the relative number and type of polar groups versus nonpolar groups. Molecules that contain a very polar part and a very nonpolar part are called amphipathic. The polar part interacts with water, forming strong interactions, while the nonpolar part doesn’t interact with water because of the hydrophobic effect. In order to accomplish this, amphipathic molecules usually undergo spontaneous self-assembly into structures that expose the polar part to water and keep the nonpolar section away from water. The carboxylate group (COOH) on the left interacts strongly with water, while the remaining part of the molecule is very hydrophobic and is forced away from water. These spherical structures have the hydrophilic part exposed to water on the surface of the sphere and bury the hydrophobic part in the center of the sphere. The reason is that the polar region of triglycerides interacts weakly with water because there is no free -OH group. Things composed of hydrophobic molecules generally include oils, fats, and greasy substances. Materials containing hydrophobic substances are often used for removal of oil from water and management of oil spills. Other molecules are hydrophilic, which means love (philic) of water, and readily dissolve in water. Now that you know some common hydrophobic and hydrophilic molecules, let’s look at their structures to understand why they interact with water in different ways. Lets consider why the polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules interact favorably with water. The interaction between a polar bond on water and polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules is given a special name — the hydrogen bond, because it involves a hydrogen that forms a bridge between the two molecules. The release of energy helps hydrophilic molecules like glucose dissolve in water. Since hydrophilic molecules contain polar bonds, they are often referred to as polar molecules. Thus, hydrophobic molecules are also referred to as nonpolar. The fact that nonpolar molecules cannot form hydrogen bonds in one reason why they have low solubility in water; however, there is another far more important force that drives nonpolar molecules from water, called the hydrophobic effect. When a nonpolar molecule is placed in water, it becomes completely surrounded by water molecules. The water molecules cannot form hydrogen bonds with the nonpolar molecules. However, they do form hydrogen bonds with the other water molecules that surround the nonpolar molecule, forming a layer of hydrogen-bonded water molecules that cover, or form a cage, around the nonpolar molecule. A representation of these water molecules organized around butane that has been added to water is shown in the following three-dimensional chemical structure. Some molecules are hydrophobic, which literally means fear (phobia) of water (hydro). These molecules do not like to dissolve in water. When hydrophobic molecules are mixed with water, they will tend to separate into distinct phases (or layers), one containing water and the other containing the hydrophobic molecules. The formation of the water cage is unfavorable, because it requires water molecules to become ordered. Ordering anything requires energy, whether it is a cage of water molecules surrounding a nonpolar molecule, or your messy dorm room. The energy cost of ordering water molecules around nonpolar compounds is so high that they are forced out of the water, leading to a separation of phases; oil and water don’t mix because of the hydrophobic effect. Most biological molecules contain both polar and nonpolar regions. Their behavior in water depends on the relative number and type of polar groups versus nonpolar groups. Molecules that contain a very polar part and a very nonpolar part are called amphipathic. The polar part interacts with water, forming strong interactions, while the nonpolar part doesn’t interact with water because of the hydrophobic effect. In order to accomplish this, amphipathic molecules usually undergo spontaneous self-assembly into structures that expose the polar part to water and keep the nonpolar section away from water. The carboxylate group (COOH) on the left interacts strongly with water, while the remaining part of the molecule is very hydrophobic and is forced away from water. These spherical structures have the hydrophilic part exposed to water on the surface of the sphere and bury the hydrophobic part in the center of the sphere. The reason is that the polar region of triglycerides interacts weakly with water because there is no free -OH group. Things composed of hydrophobic molecules generally include oils, fats, and greasy substances. Materials containing hydrophobic substances are often used for removal of oil from water and management of oil spills. Other molecules are hydrophilic, which means love (philic) of water, and readily dissolve in water. Now that you know some common hydrophobic and hydrophilic molecules, let’s look at their structures to understand why they interact with water in different ways. Lets consider why the polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules interact favorably with water. The interaction between a polar bond on water and polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules is given a special name — the hydrogen bond, because it involves a hydrogen that forms a bridge between the two molecules. The release of energy helps hydrophilic molecules like glucose dissolve in water. Since hydrophilic molecules contain polar bonds, they are often referred to as polar molecules. Thus, hydrophobic molecules are also referred to as nonpolar. The fact that nonpolar molecules cannot form hydrogen bonds in one reason why they have low solubility in water; however, there is another far more important force that drives nonpolar molecules from water, called the hydrophobic effect. When a non-polar molecule dissolves in water it becomes completely surrounded by water molecules. The water molecules cannot form hydrogen bond with the non-polar molecule, however they do form hydrogen bonds with the other water molecules that surround the non-polar molecule, forming a layer of hydrogen bonded water molecules that cover, or form a cage, around the dissolved non-polar molecule. A representation of these water molecules organized around dissolved butane is shown in the following Jmol: If you add some salt to water, you are making a solution. Water is the solvent and the salt is the solute. Solutions in which water is the solvent are called aqueous solutions. Substances that will dissolve in water are hydrophilic or water-loving. What kinds of molecules are hydrophilic? They split into positive and negative ions and dissolve in water. Polar water molecules surround the charged particles, breaking them away and pulling them into the fluid. Polar molecules also are hydrophilic. Polar water molecules readily surround and dissolve polar molecules or molecules with polar functional groups. Molecules that do not dissolve in water are hydrophobic (from the Greek word meaning water-fearing or water-hating). Nonpolar molecules are hydrophobic. Have you ever tried to mix water and oil? Oils and fats are nonpolar and will not form a solution with water. When looking at a substance’s chemical structure, the key is to figure out whether or not there are any parts of the molecule that “look like water.” If there are, then the unknown chemical will probably dissolve in water. Next we will examine hydrophobic molecules more closely. Substances with hydrophobic molecules will not dissolve in water and instead will tend to separate from water. Have you ever filled up a glass of water to the very top and then slowly added a few more drops? Before it overflows, the water forms a dome-like shape above the rim of the glass. This water can stay above the edges of the glass because of the property of cohesion. In cohesion, water molecules are attracted to each other (because of hydrogen bonding), keeping the molecules together. When water is sprinkled onto a solid surface, surface tension causes the water to remain in compact droplets instead of spreading out into a thin film. When you drop a small scrap of paper onto a droplet of water, the paper floats on top of the water droplet, even though the object is denser (heavier) than the water. This occurs because of the surface tension that is created by the water molecules. Cohesion and surface tension keep the water molecules intact and the item floating on the top. Many insects are specially adapted to exploit surface tension, which allows them to literally “walk on water.” These cohesive forces are related to water’s property of adhesion, or the attraction between water molecules and other molecules. This is observed when water “climbs” up a straw placed in a glass of water. You will notice that the water appears to be higher on the sides of the straw than in the middle. This is because the water molecules are attracted to the straw and therefore adhere to it. These tubes connect the roots of plants to their leaves, and carry water to plant tissues. Adhesion helps water cling to the walls of the tubes, and cohesion keeps the water in an intact column. Without these properties of water, tall plants would be unable to receive the water and nutrients they require, and they would die. Imagine you have placed a metal pan containing water on the stove. The metal’s temperature changes much more quickly than that of the water, even though both substances are receiving heat from the same source. Temperature is a measure of the vibrational energy of molecules within a substance; it reflects how fast the molecules are jiggling around. If you add heat to metal, the molecules respond quickly with an increase in their “jiggling” and the temperature increases rapidly. If you add the same amount of heat to water, the molecules respond much less quickly. Why is water’s temperature so resistant to change? When water is heated, a large part of the heat energy goes into breaking the hydrogen bonds between the water molecules. Only a small part actually increases the kinetic energy of the water molecules. This effect is particularly strong when water freezes; water molecules are joined in a regular crystal structure by stable hydrogen bonds. When water freezes, the water molecules become arranged into a regular crystal. In this arrangement, the water molecules are further apart than they are in liquid water. Thus, the density of ice is less than the density of liquid water. Ice, the solid state of water, can float in the liquid state. Solid water is less dense than liquid water because in ice, the regular pattern of hydrogen bonds pushes the molecules further apart. When water freezes, the water molecules become arranged into a regular crystal. In this arrangement, the water molecules are further apart than they are in liquid water. Thus, the density of ice is less than the density of liquid water. Ice, the solid state of water, can float in the liquid state. Solid water is less dense than liquid water because in ice, the regular pattern of hydrogen bonds pushes the molecules further apart. All detergents are amphipathic molecules; they have a polar, water-loving (hydrophilic) part and a nonpolar, water-hating (hydrophobic) part, which allows them to dissolve in both water and oils. The hydrophilic part of SDS interacts favorably with water by hydrogen bonding and electrostatic (charge-charge) interactions between the negative charge on the SDS and the partial positive charges on the polar water molecules. When placed in water, detergents spontaneously form organized spherical structures called micelles. In a micelle, the hydrophilic part of the detergent is on the surface of the sphere and interacts with the water. The center of the sphere contains the hydrophobic part of the detergent, hidden from the water. All detergents are amphipathic molecules; they have a polar, water-loving (hydrophilic) part and a nonpolar, water-hating (hydrophobic) part, which allows them to dissolve in both water and oils. The hydrophilic part of DS interacts favorably with water by hydrogen bonding and electrostatic (charge-charge) interactions between the negative charge on the DS and the partial positive charges on the polar water molecules. When placed in water, detergents spontaneously form organized spherical structures called micelles. In a micelle, the hydrophilic part of the detergent is on the surface of the sphere and interacts with the water. The center of the sphere contains the hydrophobic part of the detergent, hidden from the water. The Jmol on the right shows a micelle dissolved in water. You can remove the water to see the micelle by clicking on the "Water Removal" checkbox. All detergents are amphipathic molecules; they have a polar, water-loving (hydrophilic) part and a nonpolar, water-hating (hydrophobic) part, which allows them to dissolve in both water and oils. The hydrophilic part of DS interacts favorably with water by hydrogen bonding and electrostatic (charge-charge) interactions between the negative charge on the DS and the partial positive charges on the polar water molecules. When placed in water, detergents spontaneously form organized spherical structures called micelles. In a micelle, the hydrophilic part of the detergent is on the surface of the sphere and interacts with the water. The center of the sphere contains the hydrophobic part of the detergent, hidden from the water. The Jmol on the right shows a micelle dissolved in water. You can remove the water to see the micelle by clicking on the "Water Removal" checkbox. The story of acids and bases begins with water (H2O). Water in the liquid state is highly dynamic. Not only are the hydrogen bonds that form between water molecules constantly forming and breaking, but some of the individual water molecules are breaking apart into hydrogen ions (H+) and hydroxide ions (OH-) and reforming to make water. The two reactions (breaking apart and reforming) are in equilibrium, so at any instant in a sample of pure water there are equal proportions of H+ and OH- Pure water is said to be “neutral” (neither acidic nor basic) because it has equal concentrations of H+ and OH-. When some compounds are dissolved into water, they disturb this balance. Some bases accept H+ directly, but others release hydroxide ions (OH-) that then combine with H+ to produce water. When the base is dissolved in water, the concentration of H+ ions goes down. Neutral solutions (like pure water) have a pH of 7. Neutral solutions (like pure water) have a pH of 7. Neutral solutions (like pure water) have a pH of 7. Water, as you know, has a neutral pH, so the process of combining an acid and a base is called neutralization. One of her lab assignments was to determine if bleach, vinegar, and water are acidic, basic, or neutral. One of her lab assignments was to determine if bleach, vinegar, and water are acidic, basic, or neutral. Water covers 70 percent of the Earth’s surface and the cell, the fundamental unit of life, consists of 70 to 95 percent water. The story of acids and bases begins with water (H2O). Water in the liquid state is highly dynamic. Not only are hydrogen bonds constantly forming and breaking between water molecules, but individual water molecules are breaking apart and then reforming again to make water. When they break apart, a hydrogen ion (H+) is transferred to another water molecule to make a hydronium ion (H3O+), leaving a hydroxide ion (OH-) from the original water molecule. These two reactions are in equilibrium, so at any instant in a sample of pure water there are equal concentrations of H+ and OH-. Pure water is said to be “neutral.” This means it is neither acidic nor basic because it has equal concentrations of H+ and OH-. Some substances can dissolve in water and they will not disturb the balance between H+ and OH-. Some bases accept H+ directly, but others release hydroxide ions (OH-) that then combine with H+ to produce water. When the base is dissolved in water, the concentration of H+ ions goes down. Shorter monosaccharides exist as linear molecules while five- and six-carbon monosaccharides form ring-like structures. These three molecules are all made of glucose, so why do they have such different functions? In animals, excess glucose molecules are linked together (through an anabolic pathway) to make a long branching polysaccharide called glycogen. And, like glycogen, starch is broken down to release individual glucose molecules that can be used to build ATP. Complex carbohydrates are built when simple sugar molecules are covalently bonded together. All living organisms--from bacteria to trees to humans--are composed of molecules. To make an organism, many molecules must be combined, and it takes energy to put molecules together. When these molecules are broken down to simpler molecules with more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released. In fact, many of the chemical pesticides than an organic farmer would never use are themselves organic molecules! Molecules like water, oxygen gas, carbon dioxide, and ionic salts like sodium chloride are inorganic. This unit will focus on organic molecules and the roles these molecules play in living organisms. What exactly are organic molecules? All organic molecules have several common properties that help distinguish them from inorganic molecules: 3) Smaller organic molecules (monomers) can be linked together to make larger organic molecules (polymers). 4) Organic molecules are typically produced by living cells, and are found in large amounts only in living things or in their remains. In fact, many of the chemical pesticides that an organic farmer would never use are actually organic molecules. All the molecules discussed in the "Introduction to Chemistry" unit were inorganic molecules. Molecules like water, oxygen gas, carbon dioxide, and ionic salts like sodium chloride fall into this category. What exactly are organic molecules? All organic molecules have several common properties that help distinguish them from inorganic molecules: Organic molecules often contain oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, or sulfur as well. Organic molecules are modular. Smaller organic molecules (monomers) can be linked together to make larger organic molecules (polymers). Organic molecules are typically produced by living cells and are found in large amounts only in living things or in their remains. However, it is important to remember that some molecules produced by living things are inorganic. In this module, you will learn more about how to recognize organic molecules. You’ll also explore in more detail the important characteristics of organic molecules. Organic molecules come in all shapes and sizes. One of the key features of organic molecules is their modularity: a limited set of monomers can be connected in different ways to form a vast array of polymers. Therefore organic molecules are virtually limitless in their diversity. Organic molecules come in all shapes and sizes. One of the key features of organic molecules is their modularity: a limited set of monomers can be connected in different ways to form a vast array of polymers. Therefore, organic molecules are virtually limitless in their diversity. These molecules carry out a diverse set of essential functions. Each major class of organic molecules represents a diverse assortment of polymers that are built from a handful of possible monomers. The monomers, smaller molecules bound together, are also called subunits. The four major classes of biologically-relevant organic molecules are: carbohydrates, proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids. These molecules carry out a diverse set of essential functions. You will see molecules represented in a variety of ways. The following activity will help you practice interpreting the different ways molecules can be illustrated. Functional groups are parts of organic molecules that have specific properties or functions. Because organic molecules can contain more than one type of functional group, a particular molecule may have multiple properties. Identifying functional groups in molecules is an important skill because once you identify a molecule’s functional groups, you can predict many aspects of its biological behavior. Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Lipids and soaps are examples of amphipathic molecules. Depending on the specific functional group, these groups of molecules lose a hydrogen ion (or deprotonate) and become either charged or neutral as a result. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally.  If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, click here. Functional groups in this category are also referred to as hydrophobic (water hating) groups. The hydrophobic nature of non-polar functional groups often affects the shape of molecules containing these groups. Because polar bonds interact favorably with water, compounds with polar functional groups also interact favorably with water, making them hydrophilic, or water-loving. Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Functional groups are parts of organic molecules that have specific properties and functions. Organic molecules may contain more than one type of functional group, and therefore, a particular molecule may have multiple properties. The physical properties of functional groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at various physiological pH levels and temperatures. Identifying functional groups in molecules is an important skill, because once you identify a molecule’s functional groups, you can predict its chemical properties and many aspects of its biological behavior. Depending on the specific functional group, these groups of molecules lose a hydrogen ion (or deprotonate) and become either charged or neutral as a result.  If you need a reminder of chemical structures or of how to view molecules in 3D, review Viewing Chemical Structures in the Introduction to Chemistry unit. Functional groups in this category are also referred to as hydrophobic (water-hating) groups. Molecules containing these functional groups tend to be insoluble; that is, incapable of dissolving in water or only slightly soluable with great difficulty. The hydrophobic nature of nonpolar functional groups often affects the shape of molecules containing these groups. Because polar bonds interact favorably with water, compounds with polar functional groups also interact favorably with water, making them hydrophilic, or water-loving. Biomacromolecules containing these functional groups dissolve in water. Some compounds contain both nonpolar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Phospholipids and soaps are examples of amphipathic molecules. Functional groups are parts of organic molecules that have specific properties or functions. Because organic molecules can contain more than one type of functional group, a particular molecule may have multiple properties. Identifying functional groups in molecules is an important skill because once you identify a molecule’s functional groups, you can predict many aspects of its biological behavior. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally.  If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, click here. Functional groups in this category are also referred to as hydrophobic (water hating) groups. The hydrophobic nature of non-polar functional groups often affects the shape of molecules containing these groups. Because polar bonds interact favorably with water, compounds with polar functional groups also interact favorably with water, making them hydrophilic, or water-loving. Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Lipids and soaps are examples of amphipathic molecules. Depending on the specific functional group, these groups of molecules lose a hydrogen ion (or deprotonate) and become either charged or neutral as a result. In this unit, we’ll take a closer look at a special group of molecules: the biological macromolecules. In this unit, you will take a closer look at a special group of molecules that form the backbone of living structures: the biological macromolecules. In this reaction, a molecule of water is lost during the combining of the two glucose molecules to form the glycosidic bond. The reverse of this reaction, requiring the addition of a water molecule, is referred to as a hydrolysis reaction. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule.  One of the simplest of the biological molecules is the carbohydrate. The name is descriptive of the character of this class of molecules since they all have the general formula of a hydrated carbon.  We are starting with this class of molecules because they are the basis for the classical naming of the enantiomers encountered in biological molecules. Complex carbohydrates are built when simple sugar molecules are covalently bonded together. Proteins can recognize specific molecules. Many folded proteins bind small organic molecules that assist the protein in performing its function. Many folded proteins bind small organic molecules that assist the protein in performing its function. Many folded proteins bind small organic molecules that assist the protein in performing its function. Molecules that bind to proteins without being modified are called ligands. Although ligands are usually small molecules, they can also be larger than the protein to which they are binding. Molecules found on the surface of bacterial cells are ligands when antibodies (proteins) in your blood bind to them during an immune response. The molecules can be complementary in these different ways: Although lactase and pepsin both catalyze the same type of reaction, breaking a bond using water (hydrolysis: "hydro" means "water" and "lysis" means "to break"), lactase only functions when lactose is its substrate and pepsin can only break peptide bonds. Although lactase and pepsin both catalyze the same type of reaction, breaking a bond using water (hydrolysis: "hydro" means "water" and "lysis" means "to break"), lactase only functions when lactose is its substrate and pepsin can only break peptide bonds. As the number of activated substrate molecules increases, so does the conversion of substrate to product. Lactase breaks lactose into galactose and glucose by adding a water molecule to the bond between the two sugars. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism  A type of interaction that occurs between neutral, hydrophobic, or water-fearing , molecules. These molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Similarly, biological membranes are stabilized by the exclusion of water between layers of lipids as we will see later.  The hydrophobic effect does not involve direct bonding between the non-polar molecules, it is an entropy driven process. When a hydrophobic molecule is truly dissolved in water, the water forms a highly ordered ice-like shell around the compound. When the hydrophobic molecules contact each during separation of the aqueous and non-polar phases, the ordered water is released and become highly disordered. The increase in disorder of the released water molecules is responsible for the spontaneous assembly of many biological systems, such as proteins and membranes. Mixed Non-polar/polar molecules: Of course, there are instances where even molecules with electronegative atoms will not be water soluble. Amphipathic molecules are molecules that have a distinct non-polar, or hydrophobic region, and a distinct polar region. These molecules do not form true solution is water. Detergents and long-chain carboxylic acids are examples of amphipathic molecules. Hydrophobic molecules contain no or very few highly electronegative atoms and do not form strong bonds with water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Because of these different functions, the structures of the two molecules are very different. Because of these different functions, the structures of the two molecules are very different. In eukaryotic cells, RNA molecules are transported from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, where proteins are made. In chemistry, we count molecules by the mole. In other words, one mole of molecules is equal to 602,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 molecules! People are most familiar with fats, but there are other types of molecules that are not fats, but are lipids. Second, because lipids are nonpolar, they are also hydrophobic (water-hating), or insoluble in water. Plants, on the other hand, often have leaves coated with waxes to prevent water from evaporating off the plant surface. Because of their hydrophobic nature, waxes prevent water from sticking on the surface of these structures. Remember that hydrophilic molecules dissolve in water and hydrophobic ones do not. How do they behave in water? When small numbers of phospholipids are in an aqueous solution they will self-assemble into micelles, structures that exclude water molecules from the hydrophobic tails while keeping the hydrophilic head in contact with the aqueous solution. This is the favored formation because it is the most stable orientation for phospholipids in a water solution. Many non-polar molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and small hydrocarbons can flow easily through cell membranes. Charged ions, such as sodium (Na+) or potassium (K+) ions seldom go through a membrane, consequently they also need special transporter molecules to pass through the membrane. Steroids can be used to help maintain proper membrane fluidity and are used as long-distance messenger molecules in some animals. A deeper understanding of the chemistry and physiology of these molecules can help us develop a better understanding of ourselves. With their compact shape, saturated fat molecules pack together efficiently and form a solid at room temperature. In contrast to other organelles, the nucleolus is not bound by a membrane, but it is an aggregate of molecules where ribosomes are assembled. Instead, it is an aggregate of molecules where ribosomes, another type of nonmembranous organelle, are assembled. Instead, it is an aggregate of molecules where ribosomes, another type of nonmembranous organelle, are assembled. A variety of different proteins, carbohydrates, sterols, and other molecules are embedded in the phospholipid bilayer. The hydrophobic core blocks the diffusion of hydrophilic ions and polar molecules. Small hydrophobic molecules and gases, which can dissolve in the membrane's core, cross it with ease. Other molecules require proteins to transport them across the membrane. Charged ions, such as sodium (Na+) or potassium (K+) ions seldom go through a membrane; consequently, they also need special transporter molecules to pass through the membrane. At high temperatures, cholesterol molecules interfere with phospholipid movement and reduce membrane fluidity. At high temperatures, cholesterol molecules interfere with phospholipid movement and reduce membrane fluidity. Both large and small molecules follow the same general principle of diffusion. Molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following Brownian motion, or random movements.  In simple diffusion, both large and small molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following random movements, referred to as Brownian motion. Here we will explore the ways in which molecules can pass across the membrane. As three different molecules move, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage in the preceding animation. Molecules can be divided into four categories with regard to their ability to cross the plasma membrane. The first category are non-polar molecules. These hydrophobic molecules can easily cross the membrane because they interact favorably with the non-polar lipids. Note that these molecules can accumulate in the membrane because they interact so well with the lipids. The second category are small polar molecules. The third category are large polar molecules. The phospholipid bilayer structure of the membrane allows selected ions and organic molecules to pass through the plasma membrane and regulates the movement of molecular substances. This page will explore the conditions under which molecules can pass across the membrane passively through diffusion. Molecules can be divided into four categories with regard to their ability to cross the plasma membrane. The first category is nonpolar molecules. These hydrophobic molecules can easily cross the membrane because they interact favorably with the nonpolar lipids. Note that these molecules can accumulate in the membrane because they interact so well with the lipids. The second category is small polar molecules. The third category is large polar molecules. As three different molecules move, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage in the preceding animation. Water, on the other hand, while polar, is small enough to cross the membrane at a slow rate. As a general rule, charged molecules are much less permeable to the lipid bilayer. Cells must be able to move large polar and charged molecules across the lipid bilayer of the membrane in order to carry out life processes. To allow these molecules, which are not soluble in the lipid bilayer, to pass across the hydrophobic barrier, it is necessary to provide ports, channels, or holes through the membrane. The molecules will still move spontaneously down a concentration gradient from high to low concentration. These channels can either remain open at all times, allowing the molecules to move freely according to the concentration gradient, or they can be gated channels that open and close in response to the needs of the cell. In most cases these channels are very discriminatory and will only allow specific molecules to pass. The process of moving impermeable molecules across a membrane (down their concentration gradients) using channels or pores is referred to as facilitated diffusion. Cells must be able to move large polar and charged molecules across the lipid bilayer of the membrane in order to carry out life processes. To allow these molecules, which are not soluble in the lipid bilayer, to pass across the hydrophobic barrier, it is necessary to provide ports, channels, or holes through the membrane. The molecules will still move spontaneously down a concentration gradient from high to low concentration. These channels can either remain open at all times, allowing the molecules to move freely according to the concentration gradient, or they can be gated channels that open and close in response to the needs of the cell. In most cases these channels are very discriminatory and will only allow specific molecules to pass. The process of moving impermeable molecules across a membrane (down their concentration gradients) using channels or pores is referred to as facilitated diffusion. In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against their concentration gradient. Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require channels or ports in the membrane through which the generally non-permeable molecules can pass. ion channels) have structural similarities while maintaining their ability to discriminate between molecules. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against their concentration gradient. In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against their concentration gradient. Observe the active transport of sodium and potassium molecules using ATP. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against their concentration gradient. Observe the active transport of sodium and potassium molecules using ATP. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. The channels and pores provide a means by which molecules can pass directly through the membrane to the cytoplasm. Non-specific uptake of molecules occurs by phagocytosis (large particles and macromolecules) and pinocytosis (water soluble small molecules). Pinocytosis is the uptake of fluid and any small molecules dissolved within it. Pinocytosis is the uptake of fluid and any small molecules dissolved within it. As you know, molecules will tend to move down their concentration gradients until equilibrium is reached. The plasma membrane (lipid bilayer) is significantly less permeable to most solutes than it is to water. Therefore the WATER tends to flow in a way that establishes an equal concentration of solutes on either side of the membrane. The water flows down its own concentration gradient, with a net movement toward the region that has a higher concentration of solutes. This movement of water across a semipermeable membrane in response to an imbalance of solute is called osmosis. Distilled (pure) water is the ultimate hypotonic solution. The solutes will "stay put" within the cell, but water molecules will diffuse such that their net flow is toward the area with a higher concentration of solutes. Water flowing out of these cells will cause the cells to shrivel. If water moves into animal cells, they will swell and can burst. Regulatory Molecules Mutated Regulatory Molecules The blobs of clay in the diagram above represent histone protein molecules. Two types of pathways can be distinguished based on how they change the complexity of molecules: catabolic and anabolic pathways. Anabolic pathways build complex molecules from simple building blocks. Photosynthetic organisms (plants, algae, and cyanobacteria) use light energy to build sugar molecules from carbon dioxide and water. In both of these pathways, some of the energy released by the breakdown of sugar molecules is captured in chemical bonds within ATP molecules. Two types of pathways can be distinguished based on how they change the complexity of molecules: catabolic and anabolic pathways. Anabolic pathways build complex molecules from simple building blocks. Photosynthetic organisms (plants, algae, and cyanobacteria) use light energy to build sugar molecules from carbon dioxide and water. In both of these pathways, some of the energy released by the breakdown of sugar molecules is captured in chemical bonds within ATP molecules. All living organisms — from bacteria to trees to humans — are composed of molecules. When these molecules are broken down into simpler molecules with more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released. A chemical reaction is a chemical change in which new molecules are formed from existing molecules. Metabolism builds bigger molecules from smaller ones, and takes molecules apart to use the atoms and energy stored in them. Photosynthetic organisms use sunlight to make organic molecules from simple raw materials (carbon dioxide and water). Cellular respiration and other processes break down organic molecules and use the energy released to build ATP molecules. Organisms ingest the glucose and oxygen, and through the process of cellular respiration (i.e., aerobic respiration), break down these large molecules producing carbon dioxide and water. A chemical reaction is a chemical change in which new molecules are formed from existing molecules. Catabolic reactions (also called “catabolism”) break down larger, more complex molecules into smaller molecules and release energy in the process. Catabolic reactions are central to biological processes such as cellular respiration and the digestion of food molecules. This bond can be broken in a reaction involving water. This reaction is called a hydrolysis reaction ("hydro" means "water" and "lysis" means "separation"; together they mean "using water to separate"). ADP + P can combine to form ATP, a reaction referred to as a condensation reaction since two molecules are condensed into one.  Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. Work can involve movement, building larger molecules, increasing the concentration of chemicals, increasing the temperature of an object, making a sound, or even glowing (bioluminescence). Plants and other photosynthetic organisms can use solar energy to build sugar molecules from simpler raw materials (carbon dioxide and water). Plants and other photosynthetic organisms can use solar energy to build sugar molecules from simpler raw materials (carbon dioxide and water). These complexes remove electrons from NADH or FADH2 molecules that were generated by oxidative processes in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. This generates a total of 3 ATP molecules since there are three ADP/ATP binding sites on the F1 domain, one associated with each - subunit. Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. Two ATP molecules are produced/glucose. Two NADH molecules are produced. During the cellular respiration reaction, food (organic molecules consisting of carbohydrates (e.g., glucose), fats, and proteins) is broken down to carbon dioxide (CO2) and water (H2O); in the process, ATP is released. Organic molecules and oxygen (O2) are inputs to the cellular respiration pathway and produce (i.e., output) carbon dioxide (CO2), water (H2O), and energy comprising ATP and heat. In the later stage of cellular respiration, the NADH and FADH2 donate the electrons and H+ they are carrying to regenerate the NAD+ and FADH+ molecules. They break molecules down into simpler components. In the next step, we are about to produce over 30 ATP molecules. Oxygen binds with the electron and loose H+ to produce water. While glycolysis and the citric acid cycle produce a few molecules of ATP, the electron transport chain can produce over 30 ATP molecules. In a hydroelectric dam, the dam separates an area of high water concentration from an area of low water concentration. Water is allowed to flow downhill through turbines in the dam. As the water flows through these turbines it turns a water wheel. At various points along the way, intermediates may be removed and used to synthesize fats and other molecules. Instead, many different kinds of fuel molecules must be partly broken down and then fed into various stages of the cellular respiration pathway. Cellular respiration extracts the stored energy from food molecules, uses it to “charge up” ATP, and releases carbon dioxide and water as wastes. Cellular respiration extracts the stored energy from food molecules, uses it to “charge up” ATP, and releases carbon dioxide and water as wastes. Some photosynthetic organisms (such as most algae and cyanobacteria) live in water. As a result, many algae and cyanobacteria have adaptations that keep them floating near the water’s surface. Plants have evolved traits that protect their above-ground portions from excess water loss. Protected in this way, leaves cannot efficiently absorb water when it rains. Instead, land plants absorb water from the ground (through their roots). Plants must then transport water upward to leaves and other tissues. Plants use specialized cells to move water. These cells are essentially long, thin tubes that transport water from the roots all the way up to hollow cavities in the leaves. Evaporation of water from leaves provides negative pressure that sucks water up the tubes. Do they get it from the soil, through their roots (like they get water)? Some photosynthetic organisms (such as most algae and cyanobacteria) live in water. As a result, many algae and cyanobacteria have adaptations that keep them floating near the water’s surface. Plants have evolved traits that protect their above-ground portions from excess water loss. Protected in this way, leaves cannot efficiently absorb water when it rains. Instead, land plants absorb water from the ground (through their roots). Plants must then transport water upward to leaves and other tissues. Plants use specialized cells to move water. These cells are essentially long, thin tubes that transport water from the roots all the way up to hollow cavities in the leaves. Evaporation of water from leaves provides negative pressure that sucks water up the tubes. Do they get it from the soil, through their roots (like they get water)? Each item labeled represents a stage in the cycle, molecules used, and molecules produced. Identify each label by selecting the name of the Calvin Cycle stage and the name of the molecules. Pigment molecules are extracted then absorption and action spectra are determined. The problem with growing tall, is that most of the water is found underground. One of the two additional items that are needed is water. Some photosynthetic organisms (such as algae and bacteria) live in water and can absorb it directly. In land plants, however, the above-ground portions of the plant have evolved to reduce water loss; one consequence of this is that land plants can no longer absorb water directly through all parts of the plant. Instead, land plants absorb water from the ground (through their roots) and then must transport this water throughout the entire plant. Do they get it from the soil, through their roots (like they get water)? Water + Light + CO2 → sugar + O2 This leads to rapid weight loss early on, because each gram of glycogen associates with up to four grams of water. As glycogen is broken down, water is released in urine. Most of the initial weight loss is actually “water weight.” So a person's blood is said to be A positive (A+) if both A and Rh molecules are present on that person’s red blood cells. molecules containing an amine group, a carboxylic acid group, and a specific side-chain Some specialized genes contain instructions for making functional RNA molecules that don’t make proteins. These RNA molecules function by affecting cellular processes directly; for example some of these RNA molecules regulate the expression of mRNA. What kinds of molecules may be involved in determining a person’s height? If bone and muscle cells receive only a small number of signal molecules, the person will end up with a short stature. If they receive a large number of signal molecules, the person may end up being very tall. What kinds of molecules may be involved in determining a person’s height? If bone and muscle cells receive only a small number of signal molecules, the person will end up with a short stature. If they receive a large number of signal molecules, the person may end up being very tall. Although these RNA molecules do not directly encode proteins, they are both required for protein synthesis. Although these RNA molecules do not directly encode proteins, they are both required for protein synthesis. RNA molecules that contain instructions for making a protein are called messenger RNA (mRNA). RNA molecules that contain instructions for making a protein are called messenger RNA (mRNA). From the industrial production of biological molecules in bacteria, to gene therapy, biotechnology has brought dramatic changes to medicine, agriculture, forensics, and many other disciplines. From the industrial production of biological molecules in bacteria, to gene therapy, biotechnology has brought dramatic changes to medicine, agriculture, forensics, and many other disciplines. Production of all molecules is catalyzed by protein enzymes that are encoded by the genome of the organism. First, we need to distinguish between terms that relate to actual molecules and terms that relate to the information content of those molecules. Humans take in food, water and oxygen. As we take in nutrients and oxygen, these molecules must be delivered to the cells, tissues, and organs that need them for metabolic processes. The blood functions to transport molecules and blood cells and contributes to the maintenance of pH balance. Homologous Molecules and Cellular Structures These birds use their sensitive, flat bills to capture small animal prey in shallow water. Liquid water is cohesive and forms spherical droplets because of its hydrogen bonds which attract the individual water molecules to each other.  An organism that must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms.  Chemical bonds that form molecules and are a result of sharing of electrons; electrons can be shared equally (non-polar covalent) or unequally (polar covalent). The attraction of water molecules to molecules other than water. Capillary action (in which water will spontaneously climb up the walls of a tube without pumping) is a result of the adhesion of water molecules with the surface of a tube containing the water.  Substances that dissolve in or are attracted to water. “Water-loving.” Ionic and polar substances are hydrophilic.  Solutions in which water is the solvent. Humans obtain nutrients from the food we eat and the water we drink. Hydrophilic (from Greek meaning "water-loving") refers to molecules that are water soluble. Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not dissolve in water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are excluded from water (see hydrophobic interactions). The term “hydrophobic interactions” is used to describe the force driving the exclusion of nonpolar molecules from aqueous environment. In contrast to other non-covalent interactions, there is NO strong attractive force bringing nonpolar molecules together. Water molecules have stronger attraction for other water molecules than for non-polar molecules. As a result, water molecules tend to bond to each other (via hydrogen bonds) excluding nonpolar molecules. Non-polar molecules do interact with each other via van der Waals bonds, but these week interactions cannot be considered the driving force for exclusion of non-polar molecules from water. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. These are large molecules consisting of repeating structural units, or monomers, connected by covalent chemical bonds. De novo is new synthesis from simple molecules such as deoxynucleotides in this case without a starting place - the primer. It is impossible to superimpose these two mirror images, consequently they are distinct molecules. A term for a set of membranous structures found in eukaryotic cells that are related to the synthesis, packaging, and distribution of cellular molecules. Work can involve movement, building larger molecules, increasing the concentration of chemicals, increasing the temperature of an object, making a sound, or even glowing (bioluminescence). The attraction of water molecules to molecules other than water. Capillary action (in which water will spontaneously climb up the walls of a tube without pumping) is a result of the adhesion of water molecules with the surface of a tube containing the water. One of the two types of molecules that combine to form triglycerides (fats and oils). A polysaccharide that is stored in the liver and is composed of glucose molecules linked together. A chemical reaction where a molecule is split into two molecules. The breaking of this bond requires breaking a water molecule. Substances that dissolve in or are attracted to water. Hydrophilic (from Greek meaning "water-loving") refers to molecules that are water soluble. Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. The type of RNA molecules that contain instructions for making a protein. A small organic molecule that may bind chemically to other molecules to form a polymer. The process of combining an acid with a base, in which the hydrogen ion/proton (H+) that was associated with water (as a hydronium ion, H3O+) combines with the hydroxide ion (OH-) to produce water (HOH). Humans obtain nutrients from the food we eat and the water we drink. Many organic molecules also contain oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. All living organisms are composed of four major classes of large carbon-containing molecules: proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids. It can also be said that organic molecules (such as carbon-containing proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids) are natural molecules. But not all naturally-occurring molecules contain carbon, for example, water and common table salt. Are water and salt naturally occurring? The diffusion of water across a selectively permeable membrane.  Solutions in which water is the solvent. A double layer of phospholipid molecules (each molecule consisting of a phosphate group bonded to two fatty acids) that is the primary component of all cellular membranes. These are large molecules consisting of repeating structural units, or monomers, connected by covalent chemical bonds. One type of the long fatty acid molecules comprising fats and olis (i.e., triglycerides). A branching polysaccharides consisting of linked glucose molecules. Starch can be broken down into individual glucose molecules that can be used to build ATP. Fats are synthesized from two different classes of molecules: fatty acids and alcohol. Substances that when dissolved in water reduce the concentration of hydronium (H3O+) ions. One type of the long fatty acid molecules comprising fats and olis (i.e., triglycerides). Relatively large ("macro") molecules made by living organisms from smaller molecular building blocks. Catabolic reactions break down larger, more complex molecules into smaller molecules and release energy in the process. Substances that when dissolved in water form an excess of hydronium ions (H3O+). A chemical change in which new molecules are formed from existing molecules. A chemical reaction (i.e., a transformation) may break up a large molecule resulting into two or more smaller molecules; or, the reaction may combine molecules forming a new substance. Liquid water is cohesive and forms spherical droplets because of its hydrogen bonds which attract the individual water molecules to each other. The formation of the bond between these two chemicals often releases water. An organism that must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms. Chemical bonds that form molecules and are a result of sharing of electrons; electrons can be shared equally (non-polar covalent) or unequally (polar covalent).  Hydrophilic (from Greek meaning "water-loving") refers to molecules that are water soluble. Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. These are large molecules consisting of repeating structural units, or monomers, connected by covalent chemical bonds. De novo is new synthesis from simple molecules such as deoxynucleotides in this case without a starting place - the primer. We need a good definition and image here Because polar molecules are generally water soluble, they are referred to as being hydrophilic, or water-loving. Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. These are large molecules consisting of repeating structural units, or monomers, connected by covalent chemical bonds. De novo is new synthesis from simple molecules such as deoxynucleotides in this case without a starting place - the primer.  Use this as a reference for the important functional groups and representative molecules for each group. Inside each functional group there are multiple examples of the group in actual molecules. The molecules are represented as text and in 3-D.

8. [u'species', u'human', u'humans']
  Steady-state conditions imply that during the measurement the concentrations of the various species, e.g. Steady-state conditions imply that during the measurement the concentrations of the various species, e.g. Steady-state conditions imply that during the measurement the concentrations of the various species, e.g. Ka describes the relationship between the concentration of the protonated acid and the charged dissociated species at equilibrium. You also saw that even though Ka is constant, the values of the concentration of each species was varying over time. Ka describes the relationship between the concentration of the protonated acid and the charged dissociated species at equilibrium. You also saw that even though Ka is constant, the values of the concentration of each species was varying over time. K is the equilibrium constant (in this case also a dissociation constant) and is the ratio of charged species to the neutral species. When the amount of the charged species is equal to the neutral species then the log[CH3COO-/CH3COOH] is equal to 0 and thus the pH = pKa.  Ka is the ratio of the mathematical product of the concentration of each product of the reaction (in this case the charged species) to the concentration of the reactants (in this case the neutral species). Characterization of large numbers of microorganisms, rapid screening for genetic diseases and identification of individuals or species from very small amounts of tissues or cells requires a means to amplify a specific sequence of DNA for further manipulation. You have learned about micro-organisms and species that cannot be seen without a microscope as well as species of great size, like redwood trees.  All the individuals of a single species living within a specified area. To learn more: Double keystone bird in a keystone species complex. Some types of organisms play overlapping roles with other species (e.g. six species of oak tree may have similar, if not identical, roles in a forest). For example, in a Colorado forest researchers found that a species of sapsucker (similar to a woodpecker) played a vital role in providing nesting holes and food for many other species. Evolution is really just a long-term study of inheritance, shifting the focus from families to populations or even species. The unity of life is very striking when we examine molecules, which can be almost identical in species as different as bacteria and whales. The unity of life is very striking when we examine molecules, which can be almost identical in species as different as bacteria and whales. Some types of organisms play overlapping roles with other species (e.g., six species of oak tree may have similar, if not identical, roles in a forest). For example, in a Colorado forest, researchers found that a species of sapsucker (a bird similar to a woodpecker) played a vital role in providing nesting holes and food for many other species. Double keystone bird in a keystone species complex. All the individuals of a species living within a specific area are collectively called a population. A population consists of all the individuals of a species living within a specific area. Ecological knowledge can be applied to support the health and well-being of human beings and of species we care about. Humans apply principles of population ecology in managing populations of endangered species, fish, game animals, pests, and more. Species can interact directly in ways that are mutually positive (mutualism), negative for both species (competition), or helpful to one species and harmful to the other (predation). Symbiosis occurs whenever two species live in close physical contact with each other. Species may also interact indirectly through third parties. Certain species play particularly important roles in communities. Foundation species provide food and habitat structure to many other species. Keystone species are important despite their low abundance. When a keystone species is removed, community diversity suffers. Species occupy different trophic levels based on their place within food chains. Human activities tend to degrade biodiversity through habitat destruction, species introductions, overharvesting, and pollution. Within an area defined by the ecologist, individuals of a single species that live together and may breed with each other make up a population. In the photo on the previous page, a white-tailed deer has given birth to two offspring (family sizes vary widely among species). A population is a group that includes all individuals of a particular species within a given area at one point in time. A single species of mosquito in a swamp might easily number in the millions or even billions of individuals. Population density is the total number of individuals of a species per unit area or volume within a specified habitat or region. We are concerned about the population sizes and densities of animals we hunt, fish we harvest for food, and endangered species we seek to conserve. Much of population ecology is directed toward predicting, understanding, and controlling changes that occur in the populations of other species over time. For sexual species, each adult female must produce two adult offspring to replace herself and her mate and thereby maintain a steady population size. For sexual species, the average female must produce two offspring that live to reproduce: one to replace herself, and another to replace her mate. Yet we know that most species attempt to produce more—often far more—than one or two offspring. Now you see that a rate of increase predicts how much a population will grow, and that all species tend to increase if given good conditions for growth. Over time, populations of such species limit themselves: they remain close to a stable size called the carrying capacity. Principles of population ecology are critically important to many enterprises including game and fisheries management, conservation of rare and endangered species, and pest control. Initial data indicate that many tree, shrub, and wildflower species are already beginning to recover as a result. Management of threatened or endangered species may simply involve increasing birth and reducing death rates as much as possible, though this is often easier said than done. To help such species, conservationists may breed them in captivity and release individuals back into the wild. Captive breeding programs have been used to aid in the recovery of many species, including the peregrine falcon and the black-footed ferret. Most endangered species management focuses on improving survival rates (reducing death rates) by banning harvest of these species or trade in their products, by eliminating introduced predators, or by improving habitat conditions. Endangered species and fisheries management are just a few of the areas in which principles of population ecology are applied to solve real-world problems. Pest management is often a very challenging exercise because pest species tend to reproduce very rapidly and show a boom-and-bust pattern of growth. Populations are groups of organisms of the same species that live in a defined area. Conservation of endangered species requires analysis of population changes and action to reduce death rates or increase birth rates. In the next module we will explore what happens when many populations of different species interact with each other within ecological communities. A community may be home to thousands of species, and every single one of them may be linked to several others through a variety of interactions. One way to simplify the problem is to focus on a few particularly important species. Species that are physically dominant (largest and/or most abundant) in communities are sometimes called foundation species. Foundation species directly provide habitat and often food for most of the other species in the community. Anything that threatens their well-being is likely to harm many other species as well. Kelp are clearly the foundation species of the kelp forest: they provide food and shelter to a huge diversity of fish and invertebrates including such economically important species as lobster and rockfish. Most communities are clearly dependent on one or a few foundation species. But not every important species has effects that are so obvious. The effect of one species on another is said to be indirect if one or more additional species are involved in the interaction as intermediaries. Some species, called keystone species, may be very influential in communities even though they are not particularly abundant or large. A keystone species, then is a species that has an unexpectedly strong effect on community stability or diversity. Keystone species play unique roles and are not easily replaced by other species within the community. Within kelp forests, human hunting revealed the importance of a keystone species. They have found that the sea otter is a keystone species in the kelp forest. They are complex, with more than twenty species of kelp plus hundreds of animal species. They also are structured in an understandable way, with some species interactions more important than others. Although we are often focused on how one population affects the size of another, ecologists also may look at how species interact in terms of their activity, growth rates, body size, or other aspects of their well-being. Interactions are classified according to their consequences for each species involved. In a community, any pair of species may potentially interact. Direct interactions occur when two species make contact and affect each other’s well-being without the participation of any third species. Some pairs of species are intimately and physically connected, with a smaller species (symbiont) living in or on the body of a larger species (host). Predation can be broadly defined as any win-lose interaction, though it is most commonly used to describe situations where one species kills and eats another. Competition is a lose-lose, or mutually harmful, relationship between two species. Two species are competitors if each would be better off alone. Animals that eat similar foods may also sometimes make life harder for each other, though here the degree of competition is often limited because each species may eat slightly different foods. Whenever ecologists study species interactions, they try to get clear data answering “what-if” questions. Do two species really compete; that is, do they each do better if they are alone than if they are living together in a habitat? Can a species and its mutualist live apart, or are the two species entirely dependent on each other? Sometimes we can learn about these issues simply by observing what happens when introduced species—species brought into an area by human activity—establish themselves in a community. In these studies ecologists deliberately manipulate the presence or abundance of species in enclosures or in natural environments and then track what happens to other species as a result. Explore some examples of species interactions below. In each case you may be asked to identify the type of interaction—mutualism, predation, or competition—and to clarify exactly how the species interact. Competition often develops where individuals or species have similar requirements, like the plants that will crowd together in a dense Alabama thicket if conditions permit it. Community ecology broadens the focus to explore how populations of different species interact with each other. An ecological community is the collection of all interacting species populations within some defined area. Scientists learn about species interactions first by direct observation. How will a community change if a new species is added, or if an existing population dies out? Managers of nature preserves and wildlife parks seek to increase or maintain the diversity of native species in the areas under their care. Community interactions may also control the abundance of pests, disease agents, pollinators, fish, game animals, and other species that have a direct effect on human well-being. One statistic that is often of interest is the species richness of a community: the number of different species of organisms present in a given area. Some communities, such as tropical rainforest or coral reef communities, have high species richness with thousands of species of plants, animals, and microorganisms coexisting in a small area. Other communities with harsher conditions (deserts, arctic tundra, salt lakes) may hold far fewer species. Within any region, a given type of habitat will have a fairly predictable level of species richness. Human activities that alter living conditions, such as pollution or habitat destruction, can change the membership of communities and usually will cause species richness to drop. Thus a naturally high level of species richness is one indicator that a community is healthy and relatively unaffected by human activities. Community ecology deals with interactions among different species of living organisms. One statistic used to describe communities is species richness: the total number of different species that are present. Often high species richness is an indicator of a healthy community that is not very heavily altered or disturbed by human activities. Organisms of different species affect each other through many different kinds of interspecific interactions. Some species live in close physical contact (symbiosis). Competition is common among species with very similar requirements, and is particularly prevalent among plants. Natural communities are home to thousands of species; each species may interact directly with hundreds of others. Moreover, species can also participate in indirect interactions; in such cases the two species do not contact each other directly, but they affect each other through a chain of cause and effect. One helpful strategy is to focus on certain species that play important roles that help to maintain the community’s diversity and stability. Foundation species make up a large part of the bulk of the community, providing food and physical habitat to many other species. Keystone species, by contrast, are important despite their low abundance or small size. We have learned about the importance of keystone species through experiments and also through experience. Hunting or trapping of a keystone species may cause many unanticipated and unintended effects on the community as a whole. In addition, most organisms are fed upon by more than one species. Consider a suburban backyard that is home to diverse species, including robins, squirrels, ants, oak trees, grass, rabbits, daisies, spiders, toads, mushrooms, and raccoons. In the past, the science of ecology focused on nonhuman species. In most of our activities, however, humans have impacts that go far beyond those of other animal species. Poaching (illegal hunting), forest destruction, poorly regulated mining, overfishing, and destructive farming and livestock grazing practices are all contributing to biodiversity decline that threatens thousands of unique and irreplaceable species. On the positive side, conservationists are working very hard to protect wild habitats within “biodiversity hotspots” that harbor a large diversity of species. Over the past 400 years, biologists have discovered, described, and named over 1.3 million species of animals, plants, fungi, protists, and prokaryotes. Some of the most important benefits provided by ecosystems and by specific wild species within them include: But when we look at specific communities and species, we can see evidence to the contrary. This is particularly likely if keystone species are lost, as you learned in the community ecology module. Over time, local extinctions can lead to the loss of an entire species when the last reproducing group dies out (global extinction). Global extinction is irreversible: When a species goes extinct, we lose all future opportunities to learn from it, use it, and appreciate it. In fact, human hunting is one probable cause for the extinction of many large animal species that ended about 10,000 years ago. We may never know for sure if humans caused the demise of the woolly mammoth or the saber-toothed tiger, but we can be quite sure that our activities severely threaten many species today. Below is a diagram showing how many species are threatened (or already extinct) among some well-studied groups of plants and animals. Extinction is a naturally occurring process; thousands of species known only from fossils attest to that fact. In summary, species and communities worldwide face many threats. Very often, a single species will be affected by multiple factors. In most cases, humans do not set out to deliberately eradicate species. We have begun to effectively regulate or prohibit harvesting, reduce some forms of pollution, protect remaining habitats, and control introduced species. In the United States, several species, including the American beaver, the American bison, and the gray wolf, have been protected from overharvesting and have recovered and returned to much of their former range. Both species have recovered strongly since DDT was banned for use in the U.S. in 1972. Changes in species distributions. Many species’ geographic ranges are shifting, following climate conditions toward historically cooler areas as their existing habitats get warmer. Species are shifting toward the poles: further north in the Northern Hemisphere and further south in the Southern Hemisphere. In mountainous regions, species’ distributions are shifting upward to higher elevations. Range shifts may lead to endangerment of species, loss of species that provide economic resources, and northward spread of tropical pathogens and their vectors (particularly mosquitoes). A 2003 study reviewed data from studies on 172 different species of plants, birds, butterflies, and amphibians and found that springtime events had shifted toward earlier dates by an average of 2.3 days per ten years; most of the studies extended over a period of about 50 years. Such shifts can disrupt community interactions, particularly since some species respond more quickly than others to changes in climate. Similarly, some butterfly species are in trouble because their food plants are developing tough leaves and beginning to wither earlier in the season, before the caterpillars have hatched. These actions harmed many species and benefited others. Biodiversity is the variety of life and includes genetic diversity, species richness, and the variety of ecosystems at a regional scale. Humans have substantially degraded biodiversity through habitat destruction, species introductions, overharvesting, and pollution. Proteins are also found in many toxins, such as the incredibly poisonous toxin produced by the bacterial species Clostridium botulinum. Proteins are also found in many toxins, such as the incredibly poisonous toxin produced by the bacterial species Clostridium botulinum. Crossing over is responsible for generating much of the diversity that exists within a species. Remember that diversity in a species is one of the hallmark characteristics of living organisms. In future modules we will see that this diversity allows species to survive in changing environmental conditions. Crossing over is responsible for generating much of the diversity that exists within a species. Remember that diversity in a species is one of the hallmark characteristics of living organisms. In future modules, you will see that this diversity allows species to survive in changing environmental conditions. This process is called "crossing over" and is essential for generating diversity within a species. He was conducting this research only a few years before Charles Darwin published On the Origin of Species. While these traits do not have considerable implications on human health and species survival, many others do. Mendel himself realized this when he looked at species and characteristics beyond the scope of his research. If we compare traits of individuals within species, we find that they share certain traits, but they also show many differences among individuals. If we compare traits of individuals within species, we find that they share certain traits, but they also show many differences among individuals. Characterization of large numbers of microorganisms, rapid screening for genetic diseases and identification of individuals or species from very small amounts of tissues or cells requires a means to amplify a specific sequence of DNA for further manipulation. These people can be helped with growth hormone injections, but growth hormone from other species (pigs, cattle) cannot be used. Restriction enzymes are isolated from a number of bacterial species and the name of the enzyme reflects the original species. The result of fertile members of a species moving into or out of a population. All the individuals of the same species that occupy the same area and are likely to breed with one another. In particular, modern DNA sequencing technology has given us unprecedented access to the genomes of a growing host of species. It occurs at the levels of species and higher-level groups (lineages). Speciation is the splitting apart of a lineage into two or more new species. Over time, changes accumulate and additional splits generate clusters of related species (clades). And our kinship to other species means that we can learn a great deal about ourselves by exploring model organisms in depth. Second, evolution is focused on collections of individuals: populations, species, and larger taxonomic groups (for example, birds or flowering plants). In the White Sands National Monument, we see the outcome of past evolution - three different species of lizard all have “bleached” color forms that inhabit the white-sand dunes. Within two of the three species, lizards of both color forms coexist around the edges of the White Sands and there is a gradual shift toward darker color patterns as one moves into the surrounding (brown-soiled) desert. For bacteria, viruses, insects, weeds, birds, small fish, and other species with short generation times, we can sometimes directly observe microevolution over periods of a few years or less. It is the long-term evolution of biological lineages and includes the origin and extinction of species and larger taxonomic groups. The first statement of modern evolutionary theory was his book On the Origin of Species, published in 1859. Comparisons of DNA in different species support their common ancestry. Many species have very short generation times ranging from minutes (some bacteria) to a few weeks or months (many insects, some weeds). Will this change have a meaningful effect on the entire population or species? In this course we will define a species as a group of organisms whose members can and will breed with each other to produce fertile offspring. A population is all the individuals of the same species that occupy the same area and are likely to breed with one another. A population is strictly composed of members of the same species. You might wonder how a species and a population are different from one another. Populations are subsets of a species. However, the Boston dandelions and the Annapolis dandelions do belong to the same species. Whenever the males and females of a species are noticeably different in appearance, sexual selection is probably at work. We don’t have to start from “square one” with each species of interest. Phylogenetics can also help us get the most out of helpful species. One wild daffodil species in Spain (Narcissus confusus) has been found to contain a chemical that slows the progression of Alzheimer’s disease and another that inhibits replication of HIV, the AIDS virus. There are up to 150 different species of Narcissus and countless varieties. It would be inefficient and much too costly to do a full analysis on every species. Future testing will focus on close relatives of species that are already known to be chemically rich. Therefore biomedical researchers also study other species as far-flung as worms, fruit flies, mice, fish, or rhesus monkeys. Because these species have many inherited features that are very similar to our own. Here, then, is a characteristic that we can compare and contrast among every single living species. He obtained gene sequences for ribosomes of a wide range of species. He focused on part of the small subunit, shown above for one species of heat-loving bacterium. In evolutionary biology, the same sort of reasoning applies: long chunks of DNA sequences match closely among species and are evidence for shared ancestry. A tree diagram is a hypothesis about how different species are related and is subject to change as more data are gathered and as analysis techniques improve.  Below is a Table that shows how characteristics are distributed among five species. The species are not arranged in any particular order. As you have learned, shared characteristics can be used to organize species into groups, with clades defined by unique inherited traits. Unfortunately, this procedure is often quite difficult: there are millions of species to organize and an infinite number of possible characteristics to compare! This widespread gene is quite similar in most species, but mutations do occur and tend to be preserved within a lineage. As you can see, there is a great deal of similarity in this gene among the five species. Below is a summary of how the full gene sequence for each species compares to that of the Common Carp: Species with a recent common ancestor are close relatives, like brother and sister. Other species are much more distantly related, like second cousins. Two species that are closely related share many homologous features. Species that are distantly related share only a few. Using modern computers and a variety of analytical techniques, biologists can now compare vast amounts of genetic data among hundreds or even thousands of species. Not every similarity between two species is homologous. In biology, the same sorts of judgments are made about similarities among species. Speciation is the formation of new species. We will assume in this course that a species is a biological lineage, although there can be considerable debate among biologists about how species are best defined in practice. How can new species form? Species can form if they are isolated from the source lineage by geography. Allopatric translates to “different country.” Species may also form through genetic or other changes that create a subgroup within a lineage that does not breed or exchange individuals with the source population. A new species “pops up” right within, and surrounded by, its parent species. It can occur if geological changes break a species’ range into separate “islands” of habitat. The map of the world is a jigsaw puzzle of broken-up habitats (continents, oceans, islands, mountain ranges, lakes, caves, river systems, forests, deserts...) occupied by different regional or local species. Allopatric speciation helps us make sense of these patterns: as Earth’s landscapes were reshaped and broken up by geologic processes, living lineages also became separated and diverged into locally adapted species. In some cases many closely-related species all live in the same geographic area and there is no known barrier that divides them today or in the recent geologic past. These species likely formed through sympatric speciation, which occurs without help from a physical barrier to dispersal. The drive to reproduce generally maintains the integrity of species by assuring that all their populations will exchange genes with each other. Sometimes polyploid types form new species that can breed with each other but are incompatible with the original species. Second, changes in ecology and breeding habits can also isolate a group within a species. Macroevolution is a long-term process and includes the origin and extinction of species and larger taxonomic groups. Lineages (often the same as species) are collections of populations that evolve independently of each other. Clades are complete collections of species that all trace back to a common ancestor. A few closely related species may form a clade (spoonbills), but on a much grander scale all life is a single clade descended from only one or a few early cell types. Biologists assign species to clades based on homologous structures and genes. All species share a few basic cellular features that were inherited from one or a few early cell types. More closely related groups of animal or plant species have similar body structures such as the limb bone arrangements seen in modern tetrapod (four-limbed) animals. It can help us deal more intelligently with diverse life forms: organisms within a clade are similar and we can predict a lot about a species if we can map it to a particular group. This comes in handy when we face a new threat or when we are searching for species with helpful characteristics. If life’s diversity were not linked by ancestry, each new species would be as unfamiliar and mysterious to us as an alien from another galaxy. For example, can microevolution possibly explain the origin of new and different species? All spoonbill species have a similar bill shape and mode of feeding, but species vary in distribution, behavior, genetics, coloration, structure, and plumage. In it, species are placed in nested groups based on their shared characteristics. Species correspond to biological lineages. Today, biologists strive to place closely related species (members of a clade) within the same taxonomic groups. Thus the taxonomic system is not merely a convenient way to organize species. Like plagiarized term papers, our genes contain many sequences that closely match those in other species. Macroevolution is a long-term process and includes the origin and extinction of species and larger taxonomic groups. In practice, biologists often use the term “species” to describe a biological lineage. The definition of “species” you learned earlier in this Unit fits the idea of a lineage. Changes in the genetic makeup of one population can affect the genetic makeup of other populations over time, so the species as a whole evolves as a unit. Yet the evolution of the Roseate Spoonbill does not affect the genetic makeup of other bird species. Five additional species of Spoonbill live in different parts of Africa, Australia, and Eurasia. It occurs when an existing species splits or branches into two or more new species that evolve independently of each other. Over very long periods of time, repeated branching of a lineage can create groups of related species called clades. A clade is a complete group of all species that descend from some common ancestor. The six species of Spoonbill form a clade; all of them share unique adaptive traits not found in other birds, most notably the distinctive bill. They all likely descended from a single ancestral species that possessed these unique features. Human activities destroy or change habitat so that it no longer supports the growth and reproduction of a species. Humans move species out of their natural range and into a new area. The new species prey upon, compete with, change habitat for, or otherwise harm native species, resulting in their extinction. This is a particularly important threat on islands and other isolated habitats, where introduced predators may decimate native prey species that are not adapted to their presence. All the individuals of a single species living within a specified area. The collection of all interacting species populations within some defined area. A species that are physically dominant (largest and/or most abundant) in communities. The result of fertile members of a species moving into or out of a population. Human activities destroy or change a habitat so that it no longer supports the growth and reproduction of a species. A type of community interaction where the effect of one species on another is exerted through one or more additional species acting as intermediaries. An effect of one population on another in a community; any interaction between members of different species. Non-native species that are introduced in new habitats and compete--often out-compete--species native to the habitat. Humans move species out of their natural range and into a new area. The new species prey upon, compete with, change habitat for, or otherwise harm native species, resulting in their extinction. This is a particularly important threat on islands and other isolated habitats, where introduced predators may decimate native prey species that are not adapted to their presence. A species that has an unexpectedly strong effect on the stability or diversity of a community that is much larger than its abundance or biomass would suggest. A change in a biological lineage including the origin or extinction of species. This is evolution beyond the species level. A type of interspecific interaction where both species benefit. All the individuals of a single species living within the same area and are likely to breed with one another. A type of interspecific interaction where one species (predator) kills and eats the other species (prey). Speciation is the formation of new biological lineage as one species splits into two or more species. The number of different species of organisms present in a given area. A type of direct community interaction between pairs of species that are intimately and physically connected, with a smaller species (symbiont) living in or on the body of a larger species (host). The formation of a new species (from within a population) in the same geographic area without a known geographical barrier that divides them today or in the recent geologic past. Groupings of species in a community based on their feeding relationships. The maximum population size of a species that an environment can sustain over a long period of time, given the food, habitat, water and other necessities available in the environment. A clade is composed of a common ancestor and all species that descend from this common ancestor. How populations of different species interact with and effect each other within a defined area constituting an ecological community. A type of interspecific interaction where both species are harmed.

9. [u'energies', u'activation energy', u'atp']
  Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. When the temperature increase matches the energy of the bond, the energy cn be used to break the bond. As with substrate binding, increased temperature can provide the energy necessary to break the weak non-covalent bonds. When the temperature increase matches the energy of the bond, the energy cn be used to break the bond. As with substrate binding, increased temperature can provide the energy necessary to break the weak non-covalent bonds.  Enzymes and other catalysts lower the activation energy for converting a specific substrate to product, as shown in the graph below. The activation energy is the energy required for a chemical reaction to proceed to product. By lowering the activation energy, a chemical reaction can proceed much more quickly. Note that enzymes have no effect on the free energy of the reaction. At the molecular level, van der Waals interactions can contribute 10s of kJ/mol of energy.  Each of the bond types represents a measurable amount of energy. To break a bond, the equivalent amount of energy must be expended. In metabolism, bonds are broken in molecules, such as glucose, to "release" the energy. The cell utilizes this energy to drive other energy consuming reactions. The covalent bond has the most energy associated with it, on average approximately 100 kilocalories/mole (kcal/mol).  Thus the non-covalent bonds that have been introduced have approximately 20 times less energy associated with them and, thus, are more easily broken individually. As NaCl there is 5 kcal/mol of energy associated with the ionic attraction of the cation and anion, but when a Na ion is surrounded by 20 water molecules, there is 100 kcal/mol of energy associated with just the Na ion. At the molecular level, van der Waals interactions can contribute 10s of kJ/mol of energy.  Each of the bond types represents a measurable amount of energy. To break a bond, the equivalent amount of energy must be expended. In metabolism, bonds are broken in molecules, such as glucose, to "release" the energy. The cell utilizes this energy to drive other energy consuming reactions. The covalent bond has the most energy associated with it, on average approximately 100 kilocalories/mole (kcal/mol).  Thus the non-covalent bonds that have been introduced have approximately 20 times less energy associated with them and, thus, are more easily broken individually. As NaCl there is 5 kcal/mol of energy associated with the ionic attraction of the cation and anion, but when a Na ion is surrounded by 20 water molecules, there is 100 kcal/mol of energy associated with just the Na ion.  The primary function of carbohydrates is as a source of energy. When glucose is completely metabolized in a cell, 673 kcal of energy is released for each mole of glucose. The net equation for this process of glucose oxidation can be written as follows: (C(H2O))6 + 6 O2 -------------> 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + 673 kcal (energy)  The challenge for the cell is to capture released energy and convert it to a useful form so that it can do work (e.g.  The primary function of carbohydrates is as a source of energy. When glucose is completely metabolized in a cell, 673 kcal of energy is released for each mole of glucose. The net equation for this process of glucose oxidation can be written as follows: (C(H2O))6 + 6 O2 -------------> 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + 673 kcal (energy)  The challenge for the cell is to capture released energy and convert it to a useful form so that it can do work (e.g.  While the monosaccharides can serve directly as sources of energy, as will be seen elsewhere in the course, they are also the building blocks for many molecules that are used for structure, energy storage and signaling. Furthermore, the condensation/hydrolysis reaction is generally written as an equilibrium; however, the glycosidic (acetal) linkage is very stable and does not spontaneously break (hydrolyze) without the input of energy and the use of a specific enzyme. Thus the galactose that is released from lactose can be concerted to glucose and used for energy. Carbohydrates generally exist as di- and polysaccharides used in transport, energy storage, structure and signaling. Carbohydrates generally exist as di- and polysaccharides used in transport, energy storage, structure and signaling. The trick for the cell is to convert the 673 Kcal of energy to a useful form so that it can do work for us. Fats (or triglycerides) are used to store energy. Fats are mainly energy storage and insulating molecules. Per gram, fats contain twice as much energy as carbohydrates. To do work, the cell must expend energy and actively move (pump) the ions. The source of energy for this process in most biological systems is the hydrolysis of ATP. Transport proteins can either be energy requiring, that is active, or passive. When the cell needs to move molecules against a concentration gradient then it must expend energy. The process of metabolism breaks these complex biomolecules into simple molecules with the release of energy. The most common form of energy is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This high energy phosphorylated compound is used as a energy source in many cellular processes and for bio-mechanical functions, such as muscle contraction or ion transport across membranes. The resultant compounds and energy released from food are used to synthesize complex molecules for the specialized needs of the cell or organism. The transformation of ingested food to energy and simple compounds, or the synthesis of complex molecules, is performed by a series of enzymatic reactions.  Degradative or catabolic pathways generally release energy and electrons from oxidative processes, i.e. the electrons, which are carried on organic electron carriers, can be used to generate additional energy, or can be used for synthetic purposes. Synthetic, or anabolic consume energy and are generally reductive, requiring electrons. In this section of the course we will investigate in some detail the production of energy from glucose and how this process is regulated to maintain homeostasis.  input and output compounds, the cellular location of the pathway, the type of energy the pathway produces. The process of metabolism breaks these complex biomolecules into simple molecules with the release of energy. The most common form of energy is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This high energy phosphorylated compound is used as a energy source in many cellular processes and for bio-mechanical functions, such as muscle contraction or ion transport across membranes. The resultant compounds and energy released from food are used to synthesize complex molecules for the specialized needs of the cell or organism. The transformation of ingested food to energy and simple compounds, or the synthesis of complex molecules, is performed by a series of enzymatic reactions.  Degradative or catabolic pathways generally release energy and electrons from oxidative processes, i.e. the electrons, which are carried on organic electron carriers, can be used to generate additional energy, or can be used for synthetic purposes. Synthetic, or anabolic consume energy and are generally reductive, requiring electrons. In this section of the course we will investigate in some detail the production of energy from glucose and how this process is regulated to maintain homeostasis.  input and output compounds, the cellular location of the pathway, the type of energy the pathway produces. The process of metabolism breaks these complex biomolecules into simple molecules with the release of energy. The most common form of energy is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This high energy phosphorylated compound is used as a energy source in many cellular processes and for bio-mechanical functions, such as muscle contraction or ion transport across membranes. The resultant compounds and energy released from food are used to synthesize complex molecules for the specialized needs of the cell or organism. The transformation of ingested food to energy and simple compounds, or the synthesis of complex molecules, is performed by a series of enzymatic reactions.  Degradative or catabolic pathways generally release energy and electrons from oxidative processes, i.e. the electrons, which are carried on organic electron carriers, can be used to generate additional energy, or can be used for synthetic purposes. Synthetic, or anabolic consume energy and are generally reductive, requiring electrons. In this section of the course we will investigate in some detail the production of energy from glucose and how this process is regulated to maintain homeostasis.  input and output compounds, the cellular location of the pathway, the type of energy the pathway produces. Degradative, or catabolic, pathways generally produce energy. Synthetic, or anabolic, pathways generally consume energy. A reaction will be spontaneous in the forward direction if the Gibbs free energy for that reaction is less than zero. The same reaction, if run in the reverse direction, will have a positive Gibbs free energy and will therefore be non-spontaneous. If it is necessary to reverse the direction of this reaction to reverse the direction of the pathway, then the sign of the GIbbs free energy for the reverse reaction has to become negative. If you recall, the Gibbs free energy: consists of two parts, the standard energy change, Go, and a term that accounts for the non-equilibrium concentrations of [A] and [B]. Consequently, an unfavorable reaction with a positive Gibbs free energy can be made spontaneous by making the sum of these two terms negative by coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable, energy releasing one. The energy releasing reaction provides the necessary energy to change the sign of the Gibbs free energy from positive to negative. There are two forms of coupling, both may be used to ensure a negative Gibbs free energy, direct and indirect coupling. Direct coupling reduces the standard free energy while indirect coupling reduces the second term of the equation. The standard energy change of +14 kJ/mol makes the Gibbs energy positive. However, if the unfavorable reaction is coupled to the conversion of ATP to ADP within the active site of the enzyme hexose kinase the 30 kJ of energy released from ATP can be utilized to reduce the standard energy change such that the overall Gibbs free energy becomes negative. The overall reaction is the transfer of phosphate from ATP to glucose, with an overall standard energy change of approximately -15 kJ/mol. Note that the two half-reactions sum to give the complete reaction, both in terms of the compounds involved as well as the overall standard energy change. The Gibbs free energy can also become negative by either having a favorable reaction that preceeds the unfavorable one, or a favorable reaction that follows the unfavorable one. If the preceeding step ([A] to [B]) is very favorable, the concentration of [B] increases to a level above its equilibrium level, which decreases the Gibbs free energy for step [B] to [C]. Alternatively, if the following step ([C] to [D]) is favorable, the concentration of [C] will be lower than its equilbrium level, which also decreases the Gibbs free energy for the step [B] to [C]. A reaction will be spontaneous in the forward direction if the Gibbs free energy for that reaction is less than zero. The same reaction, if run in the reverse direction, will have a positive Gibbs free energy and will therefore be non-spontaneous. If it is necessary to reverse the direction of this reaction to reverse the direction of the pathway, then the sign of the GIbbs free energy for the reverse reaction has to become negative. If you recall, the Gibbs free energy: consists of two parts, the standard energy change, Go, and a term that accounts for the non-equilibrium concentrations of [A] and [B]. Consequently, an unfavorable reaction with a positive Gibbs free energy can be made spontaneous by making the sum of these two terms negative by coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable, energy releasing one. The energy releasing reaction provides the necessary energy to change the sign of the Gibbs free energy from positive to negative. There are two forms of coupling, both may be used to ensure a negative Gibbs free energy, direct and indirect coupling. Direct coupling reduces the standard free energy while indirect coupling reduces the second term of the equation. The standard energy change of +14 kJ/mol makes the Gibbs energy positive. However, if the unfavorable reaction is coupled to the conversion of ATP to ADP within the active site of the enzyme hexose kinase the 30 kJ of energy released from ATP can be utilized to reduce the standard energy change such that the overall Gibbs free energy becomes negative. The overall reaction is the transfer of phosphate from ATP to glucose, with an overall standard energy change of approximately -15 kJ/mol. Note that the two half-reactions sum to give the complete reaction, both in terms of the compounds involved as well as the overall standard energy change. The Gibbs free energy can also become negative by either having a favorable reaction that preceeds the unfavorable one, or a favorable reaction that follows the unfavorable one. If the preceeding step ([A] to [B]) is very favorable, the concentration of [B] increases to a level above its equilibrium level, which decreases the Gibbs free energy for step [B] to [C]. Alternatively, if the following step ([C] to [D]) is favorable, the concentration of [C] will be lower than its equilbrium level, which also decreases the Gibbs free energy for the step [B] to [C].  The operation of a metabolic pathway produces (catabolic) or consumes (anabolic) energy. There are a number of different forms of energy storage that are found in metabolic pathways.  Phosphorylated Compounds Nucleoside triphosphates, such as adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are commonly used to store energy. The addition of an inorganic phosphate group to a nucleotide diphosphate to form the triphosphate requires approximately 30 kJ/mol of energy. ATP can be used to phosphorylate other nucleoside diphosphates with essentially no input of energy, for example: The myth of high-energy phosphate bonds. When a phosphate is released from ATP to form ADP, about 30 kJ/mol of energy is released. It is often stated, incorrectly, that the bond that is broken is "high-energy". In fact, its energy is no different than any other phosphate bond of the same type. The release of energy is due to the fact that the products, ADP and inorganic phosphate, are lower in energy than ATP by 30 kJ/mol. One reason that ATP is higher in energy is due to charge repulsion between the negatively charged phosphate groups. Reduced redox carriers.The oxidation of metabolytes usually produces energy, If this energy was not captured in some way, it would be lost as heat. The reduced form of redox carriers, such as NADH and FADH2, are higher in energy than their corresponding oxidized forms, capturing the energy that would otherwise be lost as heat. High energy thioesters are often produced by oxidative steps. For example, the energy released by the oxidation of an aldehyde is stored in both the reduced form of NAD+ as well in a thioester. Part of the energy of this oxidation, 60 kJ/mol, is captured by the formation of NADH. The energy stored in the thioester can be used to either phosphorylate GDP to form GTP, capturing another 30 kJ/mol. Proton gradient The transfer of electrons from NADH and FADH2 to oxygen to form water during the electron transport chain, provides energy for the pumping of protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane. As the protons flow back through the membrane, the energy released is used to generate ATP, in much the same way water generates electricity in a hydroelectric plant. Generally, degradative (catabolic) pathways cause the net oxidation of compounds, releasing energy. Generally, degradative (catabolic) pathways cause the net oxidation of compounds, releasing energy. Generally, degradative (catabolic) pathways cause the net oxidation of compounds, releasing energy. The direction of a pathway depends on the energy difference between the starting compounds and final product of the pathway. The pathway will be spontaneous in the direction that causes a decrease in the free energy of the system.  You can see from the above equations that if the energy of the products are equal to the reactants, then the equilibrium concentration of [B] will be equal to [A]. If the energy of [B] is equal to [A], then Go = 0. The formula for change in the Gibbs free energy in the reaction for the reaction direction [A] to [B] is: In addition to predicting the direction of the reaction, the absolute value of G, | G |, is the amount of energy released when the concentrations of reactants and products change from their non-equilibrium values to their equilibrium values. A method of predicting the direction of a reaction was devised by J. Willard Gibbs in 1876 and the quantitative parameter that can be used to predict the direction of a reaction is called the Gibbs free energy. Before we can discuss the Gibbs free energy, we have to discuss standard energies and their relationship to equilibrium positions of reactions. Keep in mind that these discussions relate to the thermodynamic properties of pathways, more specifically the relative energy differences between reactants and products under cellular conditions. The standard energy change is the energy change when one mole of reactant is converted to one mole of product, it is the energy difference between reactants and products: Go=Gproductso-Greactantso. The standard energy change defines the equilibrium position of a reaction through the following equation: Kinases are used when direct coupling is required to reduce the Gibbs free energy of the reaction. Instructions: The left panel shows the energy changes that occur for each of the ten steps in glycolysis in the absence of coupling. The right panel shows the actual energy changes during the normal operation of glycolysis. These energy changes include contributions from both direct and indirect coupling. Note that the energy content of two ATP molecules is required to initiate the pathway. The energy stored in NADH is extracted during electron transport. This enzyme catalyzes the diffusion of glucose across the membrane without the input of energy. The Gibbs free energy for the transport of glucose is: Although this expression for the Gibbs free energy appears different than previous expressions, it is really the same equation. The difference in standard free energy, Go, is zero because the reactants and products are the same compound, differing only in their location. Instructions: The left panel shows the energy changes that occur for each of the ten steps in glycolysis in the absence of coupling. The right panel shows the actual energy changes during the normal operation of glycolysis. These energy changes include contributions from both direct and indirect coupling. Note that the energy content of two ATP molecules is required to initiate the pathway. The energy stored in NADH is extracted during electron transport. This enzyme catalyzes the diffusion of glucose across the membrane without the input of energy. The Gibbs free energy for the transport of glucose is: Although this expression for the Gibbs free energy appears different than previous expressions, it is really the same equation. The difference in standard free energy, Go, is zero because the reactants and products are the same compound, differing only in their location. The first step of the TCA cycle utilizes the high-energy thioester in acetyl-CoA to drive the addition of an acetate group to oxaloacetic acid to produce citrate. Since the standard energy for the formation of ATP from ADP and Pi is +30 kJ/mol the transport of three protons must release at least 30kJ/mol in order to provide enough energy to synthesize ATP. The amount of energy that is stored in the protein gradient can be obtained by calculating the Gibbs free energy. The Gibbs free energy consists of two terms. The first indicates the energy change due to the difference of proton concentration across the membrane. The second term accounts for the fact that the energy of a charged particle depends on the voltage. If there is a voltage difference across the membrane then the energy of the proton will depend on its location. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy change under these conditions at 300 K is:  The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. The production of ATP from "high-energy" electrons on NADH and FADH2 occurs in two steps, electron transport followed by ATP synthesis. The energy obtained from electron transport is stored as a pH gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The electrochemical gradient is a form of potential energy that is utilized by the enzyme ATP synthase to convert ADP to ATP. These high energy compounds ultimately deposit their electrons on oxygen, forming water. The energy that is released by electron transport is stored as a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The energy that is released by the transfer of electrons from NADH to water is used to transport a total of 10 protons across the inner membrane.  The energy that has been stored in the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane cannot be easily utilized by other processes in the cell. The enzyme ATP synthase is responsible for converting the energy stored in the proton gradient to ATP. Since the standard energy for the formation of ATP from ADP and Pi is +30 kJ/mol the transport of three protons must release at least 30kJ/mol in order to provide enough energy to synthesize ATP. The amount of energy that is stored in the protein gradient can be obtained by calculating the Gibbs free energy. The Gibbs free energy consists of two terms. The first indicates the energy change due to the difference of proton concentration across the membrane. The second term accounts for the fact that the energy of a charged particle depends on the voltage. If there is a voltage difference across the membrane then the energy of the proton will depend on its location. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy change under these conditions at 300 K is:  The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. The production of ATP from "high-energy" electrons on NADH and FADH2 occurs in two steps, electron transport followed by ATP synthesis. The energy obtained from electron transport is stored as a pH gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The electrochemical gradient is a form of potential energy that is utilized by the enzyme ATP synthase to convert ADP to ATP. These high energy compounds ultimately deposit their electrons on oxygen, forming water. The energy that is released by electron transport is stored as a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The energy that is released by the transfer of electrons from NADH to water is used to transport a total of 10 protons across the inner membrane.  The energy that has been stored in the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane cannot be easily utilized by other processes in the cell. The enzyme ATP synthase is responsible for converting the energy stored in the proton gradient to ATP. The released glucose enters into the blood and travels to muscle for oxidation by glycolysis leading to energy production. Consequently, the synthetic reaction requires coupling to an energy releasing reaction to become spontaneous. First, glucose-1-phosphate reacts with UTP to produces a high energy intermediate, UDP-glucose, which in turn is used by the enzyme glycogen synthase to add glucose to glycogen. Since the process of converting glucose to pyruvate via glycolysis is energy releasing, the reverse reaction must require energy. Most of the steps in the gluconeogenesis pathway have a Gibbs free energy of nearly zero, and are easily reversed by slight changes in the concentrations of products and reactions. However, there are three steps in glycolysis that occur with such a large decrease in energy that they cannot become spontaneous in the reverse direction. The formation of pyruvate from phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), releasing sufficient energy to produce ATP. The third reaction in glycolysis, phosphoenol pyruvate (PEP) to pyruvate, has such a large decrease in energy that it cannot be easily reversed and must be accomplished by a different method. Therefore a total of two "high energy" phosphate bonds (ATP/GTP → ADP/GDP +Pi) are required to reverse this step. First, at the cellular level, the regulatory enzymes are sensitive to the energy levels of the cell.  Regulation by Energy Sensing. When the cell is consuming energy, ATP is being hydrolyzed to ADP or to AMP. The regulation of glycolysis and gluconeogenesis by energy sensing and indirect hormonal control is summarize below. Fatty acids can also be synthesized from acetyl-CoA by an energy requiring process. The TCA cycle is regulated by energy sensing. When the levels of the high energy compounds ATP or NADH become elevated the TCA cycle halts - there is no need for the cell to produce energy. Fats are a less desirable form of energy storage since the production of energy from fats is slower than the production from glucose. In addition, a number of tissues in the body, in particular the brain, use glucose as their principal energy source. Fatty acids can also be synthesized from acetyl-CoA by an energy requiring process. The TCA cycle is regulated by energy sensing. When the levels of the high energy compounds ATP or NADH become elevated the TCA cycle halts - there is no need for the cell to produce energy. Fats are a less desirable form of energy storage since the production of energy from fats is slower than the production from glucose. In addition, a number of tissues in the body, in particular the brain, use glucose as their principal energy source. Consumers get their energy and nutrients from such food molecules.  Organisms that use simple materials, such as water and carbon dioxide, as nutrients and use an outside source of energy (e.g., energy from sunlight) to make their own food from these materials. Common characteristics of biotic (living) things are that they use energy and raw materials to grow, sense and respond to changing environments; they reproduce; and they consist of one or more cells. Energy flows through living systems; matter is recycled. Energy can be defined as the capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter. Energy does not have mass and it does not take up space, but it can be measured in terms of what it does. Energy comes in many forms, including heat, chemical potential energy, kinetic energy of motion, and light. Energy is required for all organisms to maintain homeostasis, grow, and reproduce. It is important at this point to clarify the difference between matter and energy and to highlight a form of energy that is very important in biology. But the same serving of cereal also has a property called chemical potential energy. This is energy stored in the structure of molecules that can be converted to other forms of energy by a chemical reaction. In the process, energy will be released as heat and light. We can determine the amount of energy in the cereal by burning it and measuring how much heat is released in the process. In biology, chemical potential energy is a key form of energy. When we’re talking about energy, we’ll say “the calories stored in ...” or “the chemical potential energy of ...” a substance. We are talking about what the substance can do if it is put through a chemical reaction, like burning, that will release its stored energy. Returning to the breakfast cereal example, nutrition labels indicate the chemical potential energy of food by listing the calories per serving. Energy and matter move through living systems in different ways. Energy flows through living systems, changing forms as it goes. For example, the energy in sunlight is captured by green plants, which use this energy to build sugar molecules. The energy from the sun is now stored in the sugar and when an organism eats the sugar, the stored energy can be harvested and used to do work. The energy flows through the system; it is never recycled. Energy flow and nutrient cycling are themes in biology at every level. Organisms also must take in and use some form of energy to grow, move, etc. and release waste energy as heat. Energy can be defined as the capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter. Food also provides chemical energy (calories) that can be used for movement, growth, etc. They then use energy from sunlight to make their own food from these simple nutrients. All organisms - both consumers and producers - process foods and absorb useful energy and building blocks. You might think that energy is recycled like this, too. As you have seen, the flow of energy is in one direction. Nearly all the energy available to organisms within the biosphere comes from the sun (solar energy) and ultimately dissipates back to space as heat. Energy flow and nutrient cycling are themes in biology at every level. Excess energy intake leads to weight gain that can threaten your health. At the ecosystem level, energy flow explains why food chains are usually short and predators are often rare: energy is released as heat as it passes through each feeding level in an ecosystem. In energy flow we see chains that tie us to the sun; in nutrient cycling we see ties that bind all living things to each other. In Module 4, you will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. Life can move, reproduce, grow, and use energy because of processes that happen at the scale of atoms and molecules. In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. You will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. Life can move, reproduce, grow, and use energy because of processes that happen at the scale of atoms and molecules.  Use energy and raw materials to survive Sense and respond to changing environments Grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA Consist of one or more cells Viruses use energy and raw materials to survive. Biological research can also help address the growing demand for renewable energy and sustainable resource use. Cells, and all living organisms, require energy to function. Organisms capture and use energy through a chain of chemical reactions called metabolic processes. The energy that cells capture through metabolism can be used to do work, including the work required for reproduction. Energy is required to sustain life and all living organisms need energy to fuel their metabolic activities. Some organisms get this energy directly from the sun through the process of photosynthesis. Other organisms harvest their energy from the food they eat. Humans are an example of organisms that obtain energy from food. In Unit 5: Metabolism, you will take a closer look at what energy is and explore how different cells acquire and use energy. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. You will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. Life can move, reproduce, grow, and use energy because of processes that happen at the scale of atoms and molecules. In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. Biological research can also help address the growing demand for renewable energy and sustainable resource use.  Use energy and matter and to grow Sense and respond to changing environments Reproduce themselves with the help of DNA Consist of one or more cells Viruses use energy and raw materials to survive. All organisms use a source of energy for their metabolic activities. Some organisms use energy from the sun while others use chemical energy. Humans, for instance, obtain energy from food. In this unit, we will take a closer look at what energy is and explore how different cells acquire and use energy. All organisms use a source of energy for their metabolic activities. Some organisms use energy from the sun while others use chemical energy. Humans, for instance, obtain energy from food. In this unit, we will take a closer look at what energy is and explore how different cells acquire and use energy.  Use energy and raw materials to survive. Viruses use energy and raw materials to survive.  Use energy and raw materials to survive. Living organism use energy and raw materials to survive. Use energy and raw materials to survive. Living organism use energy and raw materials to survive.  Require energy and raw materials to survive Sense and respond to change Grow and reproduce with the help of DNA Consist of one or more cells Then you will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. Energy flows through ecosystems, starting with sunlight and leaving every living thing as heat. An energy pyramid pattern results from the loss of about 90% of the energy with each trophic transfer. Unlike energy, matter is constantly recycled in ecosystems. Today the global population exceeds 7 billion and many of us enjoy a high standard of living supported by energy and materials derived from fossil fuels. Solar energy powers the major processes driving Earth’s water cycle. We have seen how food chains, trophic levels, and food webs can be used to describe how energy and materials move through an ecosystem. The energy pyramid also has implications for humans. Energy enters ecosystems as sunlight and dissipates from all living things as heat. Producers (trophic level 1) have access to the greatest amount of energy (sunlight). As they grow, they store up food calories that supply all consumers with energy. The amount of energy available to consumers declines by about 90% with each transfer, so top predators at the end of long food chains tend to be rare. All organisms require energy for growth, reproduction, and metabolism. But as energy flows through a food web, much of it is lost at each transfer along the way. Let’s trace how energy moves through a simple ecosystem consisting of tomato plants, caterpillars, and birds. Most of the sunlight energy that reaches the plant is reflected or absorbed and re-emitted as heat. Most of this is used by the plant for aerobic respiration and ATP generation; ultimately this energy is released as heat. Only about 1% of the incoming solar energy is stored as calories in the molecules within the tissues of the growing plant. Much of the energy in the leaf material eaten by a caterpillar is not digested and is excreted in feces. Of the energy that is absorbed, most is used in aerobic respiration and is released as heat. Some of the energy in the caterpillar is excreted in the bird’s feces. If you are a bird-eating consumer such as a snake or hawk, very little energy is available to you. Based on the estimates above, you would have access to only 0.01% of the solar energy that fuels the ecosystem as a whole. As you can see, only about 1% of incoming solar energy is stored as calories in the tissues of growing photosynthetic producers. This energy is then passed up to higher trophic levels through a series of transfers. On average, only about 10% of the available energy in one trophic level is incorporated and stored as calories in the bodies of the next level up. The rest of the energy is released undigested in feces or is dissipated as heat. The result is that all ecosystems show a pattern known as the energy pyramid in which energy availability decreases with increasing trophic level. The amount of energy available to consumers at the top of the pyramid is much smaller that what is available to organisms at lower levels. In real ecosystems, energy availability can be measured in many different ways. In either case, the overall energy pyramid pattern remains quite consistent. Energy and nutrients take many complicated paths through an ecosystem. Chemical energy is stored in the bonds that join together the tomato’s organic molecules. Your cells can use some of that energy to make new molecules or run processes in your cells. Every organism in an ecosystem must obtain its energy through one or more such transfers. Some organisms are close to the source of energy (the tomato); others are several steps down the line (a hawk that eats a bird that ate a caterpillar that ate the tomato plant). The energy that fuels most ecosystems comes from the sun. They can make simple organic food molecules from inorganic raw materials using light energy from the sun. Each species in a food chain gains energy from a single source and is, in turn, a source of energy to at most one consumer as shown in the picture below: Food chains help us trace the flow of energy and materials through ecosystems. Each level is dependent on the previous level as a source of food and may provide nutrients and energy to a subsequent level. In other words, the arrows follow the flow of energy and nutrients through the ecosystem. As we will explore in this module, energy starts in a nonliving form, usually as sunlight, and is captured and stored as chemical energy by producers. A continuing supply of solar energy keeps this system in motion. As they take up and release energy, growing organisms also absorb chemical nutrients and release chemical wastes. Ecosystems include producers, organisms that can use energy from sunlight to synthesize their own food molecules. Energy flows through the ecosystem, dissipating as heat with each transfer. As a consumer you depend on producers for food energy. Some of the actions that could be taken to accomplish this include energy conservation, widespread adoption of renewable energy technologies, increased use of nuclear power, switching from coal to natural gas, and capture and storage of CO2 from coal-burning power plants. In many industries, improvements are occurring gradually through better management practices that reduce waste output, reduce energy and resource use, and reduce harm to the environment. Examples include the Forest Stewardship Council for sustainable forest products, the Marine Stewardship Council for sustainable seafood, LEED certification for sustainable buildings, and the U.S. EPA Energy Star and Water Sense labels for energy- and water-efficient appliances. Examples of advanced low-impact technologies include renewable energy technologies (solar panels, windmill generators), biodegradable plastics, smokestack “scrubbers” that remove pollutants from power plant emissions, and energy-efficient appliances and buildings. Many physical processes (solar energy input, river flow, tidal flow, wind, flow of heat from Earth’s interior) also occur at a high and sustained rate.Nonrenewable resources, by contrast, are replenished very slowly. For example, the sun’s energy output changes over time, and this can influence our climate. In fact, the sun’s energy output was considerably lower than normal from 2005 to 2010, but the climate continued to warm over that period. Energy enters the Earth system—its land, water, and air—as sunlight. Over time, they release energy as heat, also known as infrared radiation. Eventually, all of the energy that entered as sunlight escapes back into space as infrared radiation. Energy that enters the Earth system as light is balanced by energy that exits as heat. Below is a diagram showing what Earth’s energy balance might look like if there were no clouds to reflect light and no gases that could interfere with heat’s escape. These gases are transparent to light and to heat radiation; that is, they do not interfere with sunlight energy coming into Earth or with the heat radiating back into space. Several much less abundant gases, however, do have a major effect on Earth’s energy budget. Making a laptop also depends on extraction of metals and oil from deposits around the world, and requires heavy inputs of fossil energy. Human labor was the main energy source. Energy sources expanded to include labor from farm animals such as oxen and horses. Machines harnessed external sources of energy to accomplish all kinds of work. Fossil fuels became the main source of energy for transportation, farm work, heating, cooling, manufacturing, mining, and other activities. Lipids perform many functions in the cell including: storage of energy for long-term use in the form of fats, insulation from the environment, and building blocks for hormones. When food intake is insufficient, glycogen can be broken down into glucose for energy. Energy inherent to the structural arrangement of atoms or molecules that may be released by a chemical reaction. What distinguishes living things are their need for energy, their ability to grow and reproduce, their response to environmental stimuli and their ability to evolve. When an isotope is radioactive, this means that it emits some energy (radiation) when it breaks down to a different isotope. When an isotope is radioactive, this means that it emits some energy (radiation) when it breaks down to a different isotope. But electrons are kept in orbit by kinetic energy. Radioactive isotopes emit energy in the form of radiation when they decay into different isotopes. Cells that are using a lot of sugar (or need a lot of energy) will absorb more of the radioactive isotope. What distinguishes living things are their need for energy, their ability to grow and reproduce, their response to environmental stimuli and their ability to evolve. You transfer heat energy to the pan. When the cue ball strikes them, energy is transferred and the balls “break,” rolling in every direction. The process of neutralization also gives off heat, indicating that chemical potential energy is being released during the course of the reaction. The most abundant class of macromolecules found in living systems, carbohydrates are the primary source of energy in living systems. Large complex carbohydrates can be used to store energy. The paper you write on, the bowl of cereal you eat for breakfast, and the energy you use to walk up a flight of stairs all come from carbohydrates. Rice, wheat, and corn are some of humanity’s most important crops; these foods are the primary source of energy for much of our population. Simple carbohydrates are quickly and easily accessed to generate energy the cell can use, while complex carbohydrates are used to store energy for a longer period of time. The paper you write on, the bowl of cereal you eat for breakfast, and the energy you use to walk up a flight of stairs all come from carbohydrates. Rice, wheat, and corn are some of humanity’s most important crops; these foods are the primary source of energy for much of our population. Simple carbohydrates are quickly and easily accessed to generate energy the cell can use, while complex carbohydrates are used to store energy for a longer period of time. Glycogen is mainly used for energy storage in animals. Starch is mainly used for energy storage in plants. Digestible carbohydrates provide energy in a form that is easily accessible. It is one of the most abundant and important energy molecules for living things. This energy can be captured to make ATP, which can then be used to power cellular processes. Conversely, when food intake is insufficient to keep up with energy requirements, the body will break down its glycogen stores to release individual glucose monosaccharides. The difference between these two energy storage polysaccharides lies in the organization of the glucose monosaccharides. For a quick boost of energy, simple sugars are the carbohydrate of choice; diabetics will oftentimes carry a sugary food or drink with them in case their blood sugar level drops too low. In contrast with simple sugars, complex carbohydrates are broken down by the body more slowly and energy is released in a stepwise fashion. The main function of carbohydrates is to store energy, which the living organism can use at a later time. When they are replaced by stronger, more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released. In cells, certain high-energy molecules contain many unstable bonds and are used for fuel. Cells can capture this energy and use it to do work (e.g., power movement or build new macromolecules ). Most inorganic substances are relatively stable, simple, and store little chemical potential energy. By contrast, organic molecules are often complex and many store a lot of chemical potential energy. They are often complex and many store a lot of chemical potential energy. Most inorganic substances are relatively stable, simple, and store little chemical potential energy. Carbohydrates are essential for energy storage and cellular communication. Lipids are essential for energy storage and maintaining a boundary between the living organism and its environment. Carbohydrates are essential for energy storage and cellular communication. Lipids are essential for energy storage and maintaining a boundary between the living organism and its environment.  While the monosaccharides can serve directly as sources of energy, as will be seen elsewhere in the course, they are also the building blocks for many molecules that are used for structure, energy storage and signaling. Furthermore, the condensation/hydrolysis reaction is generally written as an equilibrium; however, the glycosidic (acetal) linkage is very stable and does not spontaneously break (hydrolyze) without the input of energy and the use of a specific enzyme. Thus the galactose that is released from lactose can be concerted to glucose and used for energy.  The primary function of carbohydrates is as a source of energy. When glucose is completely metabolized in a cell, 673 kcal of energy is released for each mole of glucose. The net equation for this process of glucose oxidation can be written as follows: (C(H2O))6 + 6 O2 -------------> 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + 673 kcal (energy)  The challenge for the cell is to capture released energy and convert it to a useful form so that it can do work (e.g. The main function of carbohydrates is to store energy, which the living organism can use at a later time. Carbohydrates generally exist as di- and polysaccharides used in transport, energy storage, structure and signaling. Special proteins found in muscle cells use the energy in ATP to flex your muscles. Proteins spontaneously fold to form their functional three dimensional shape, reaching the lowest energy state, because this is the most stable state. Proteins spontaneously fold to form their functional three-dimensional shape, reaching the lowest energy state, because this is the most stable state. Proteins spontaneously fold to form their functional three-dimensional shape, reaching the lowest energy state, because this is the most stable state. Lactase is produced in the intestinal tract of mammals and breaks the sugar in milk, lactose, down into the monosaccharides glucose and galactose so that they can be metabolized to produce energy. In all chemical reactions, there is an initial input of energy that is required before the reaction can occur. If this initial energy requirement (called the activation energy or energy barrier) is small, then the reaction will happen quickly and easily. If the activation energy is large, then the reaction will take longer to occur. Enzymes function to reduce the activation energy required for a chemical reaction to occur. The change in shape activates the substrate molecule and decreases the total activation energy required for the substrate to be turned into product. The monosaccharides can then be metabolized to produce energy. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction.  Enzymes and other catalysts lower the activation energy for converting a specific substrate to product, as shown in the graph below. The activation energy is the energy required for a chemical reaction to proceed to product. By lowering the activation energy, a chemical reaction can proceed much more quickly. Note that enzymes have no effect on the free energy of the reaction. ATP is a nucleotide composed of an adenine base, ribose sugar, and three phosphate groups; it provides energy for cellular activities. But a very common nucleotide used for energy adenosine triphosphate (ATP) contains three phosphates. But a very common nucleotide used for energy adenosine triphosphate (ATP) contains three phosphates. ATP has an essential function: it is the universal energy source; it acts as a general energy source for most cellular activities. Photosynthetic organisms (primarily plants and bacteria) get their energy from the sun. Animals get their energy second- or third-hand from digesting plants and other organisms (i.e., the food and other nutrients we eat). Regardless of the source, for living organisms energy is converted to the chemical bond energy contained in the ATP molecule. ATP is a relatively unstable molecule; consequently, it is never used for the long-term storage of energy in the cell. However, ATP is specialized for direct and rapid transfers of energy. When the bond between the first and second phosphates is broken, energy is released, and produces AMP (adenosine monophosphate) with mono indicating one phosphate group. Energy is releaased when ATP reacts with water to form ADP or AMP. The energy released in these reactions can be used for chemical reactions (such as protein synthesis), molecule transport, or cellular work (such as muscle contractions). Conversely, if there is a surplus of energy, specialized reactions can produce ATP from ADP and a phosphate, storing the energy temporarily before being used for other processes. The ADP generated when energy is released is recycled back to ATP using energy gained from the metabolic process. Large amounts of ATP are consumed while providing energy for biological functions. You will learn more details about how energy is stored in ATP and released in the unit dedicated to metabolism. You'll also take a look at a very special nucleotide — ATP, which acts as the energy currency of the cell. Fats are used to store energy for later use. Fats are used to store energy for later use. Cells store energy for long-term use in the form of fats. These molecules function in energy storage, cell communication, and protection. Triglycerides are an excellent source of energy storage for organisms. Fats are mainly energy storage and insulating molecules. Per gram, fats contain twice as much energy as carbohydrates. When particles move against a concentration gradient, energy is required. In the Metabolism unit, you'll explore energy and learn about out how cells generate and use this energy. Just as in a factory, cells have walls, a planning center where the product blueprints are stored, a source of energy, an assembly line for production, packaging and shipping facilities, storage facilities etc. Mitochondria (singular: mitochondrion) and chloroplasts (only in plant cells) are the organelles responsible for providing energy for all cellular functions. They carried out energy functions that gave their hosts an advantage. Although they do not have mitochondria or chloroplasts within their cells, they are able to carry out similar energy functions. Plant cells have an additional type of organelle — chloroplasts, which exist only in plant cells — involved in energy transfer. Chloroplasts capture energy from the sun and use that energy to build sugar molecules. Mitochondria then harvest the energy stored in the sugar molecules and use it to do work. The chloroplasts and mitochondria are the organelles responsible for providing energy for all cellular functions. Just as in a factory, cells have a wall or membrane providing a protective enclosure, a planning center where the product blueprints are stored, a source of energy, an assembly line for production, packaging and shipping facilities, storage facilities, etc. Organelles carry out specialized tasks such as energy production, protein synthesis, reproduction, and processing of nutrients and waste. All this work requires energy. Most factories need some sort of power plant that converts fuel into a form of energy that can be captured to do work. In the cell, this job is accomplished by organelles called mitochondria (singular form is "mitochondrion"), which take fuel in the form of sugar (glucose) and convert it to usable energy — ATP. Plant cells have an additional type of organelle — chloroplasts, which exist only in plant cells — involved in energy transfer. Chloroplasts capture energy from the sun and use that energy to build sugar molecules. Mitochondria then harvest the energy stored in the sugar molecules and use it to do work. The chloroplasts and mitochondria are the organelles responsible for providing energy for all cellular functions. Just as in a factory, cells have a wall or membrane providing a protective enclosure, a planning center where the product blueprints are stored, a source of energy, an assembly line for production, packaging and shipping facilities, storage facilities, etc. Organelles carry out specialized tasks such as energy production, protein synthesis, reproduction, and processing of nutrients and waste. All this work requires energy. Most factories need some sort of power plant that converts fuel into a form of energy that can be captured to do work. In the cell, this job is accomplished by organelles called mitochondria (singular form is "mitochondrion"), which take fuel in the form of sugar (glucose) and convert it to usable energy — ATP. Chloroplasts are unique organelles able to harvest solar energy to make sugars from carbon dioxide. Transporting some substances may require the cell to exert energy and other molecules may cross through the membrane passively, requiring no use of energy by the cell. The movement of molecular substances across the membrane can occur passively without the cell exerting energy or it can occur through the cell's use of energy to transport substances. Selective permeability affects the energy required to transport substances in and out of the cell. Because the molecules are moving down a concentration gradient, the process is driven by simple diffusion and does not require the input of additional energy from the cell. Because the molecules are moving down a concentration gradient, the process is driven by simple diffusion and does not require the input of additional energy from the cell. To do work, the cell must expend energy and actively move (pump) the ions. The source of energy for this process in most biological systems is the hydrolysis of ATP. A molecule of ATP binds to the transporter, providing the energy needed to change the shape of the transporter. To do work, the cell must expend energy and actively move (pump) the ions. The source of energy for this process in most biological systems is the hydrolysis of ATP. A molecule of ATP binds to the transporter, providing the energy needed to change the shape of the transporter. CFTR is an active transporter and requires energy in the form of ATP to function. Sometimes energy is needed and sometimes it is not. In this unit on metabolism, we will investigate in some detail the production of energy from glucose and how this process is regulated to maintain homeostasis.  Input and output compounds Cellular location of a pathway Type of energy produced by a pathway Energy comes in different forms: light energy, potential energy in chemical bonds, heat, and mechanical energy of motion. Living organisms convert one form of energy into another in a stepwise matter using metabolic pathways. Catabolic pathways break down large, complex molecules into simple ones and release energy. In this way, they effectively convert light energy from the sun into the chemical bond energy of sugar molecules. Sugar is a good medium-term energy storage molecule, but is not directly useful for doing work in cells. To extract useful energy from sugar, cells rely on two major types of catabolic pathways: cellular respiration and fermentation. ATP is a special molecule used by cells as their “energy currency.” ATP supplies energy for other cellular processes: cell movement and division, membrane transport, and anabolic pathways enabling growth. Anabolic pathways use energy stored in ATP for building complex molecules from simpler ones. Living organisms that do not do photosynthesis indirectly depend on the sun as the ultimate source of energy, because they derive their energy from food that is biological in origin. Although consumers may eat each other, the energy in organic matter can eventually be traced back to photosynthetic producers. Errors in regulation of metabolism affect energy balance of living organisms and may result in health problems, such as diabetes and obesity. Energy comes in different forms: light energy, potential energy in chemical bonds, heat, and mechanical energy of motion. Living organisms convert one form of energy into another in a stepwise matter using metabolic pathways. Catabolic pathways break down large, complex molecules into simple ones and release energy. In this way, they effectively convert light energy from the sun into the chemical bond energy of sugar molecules. Sugar is a good medium-term energy storage molecule, but is not directly useful for doing work in cells. To extract useful energy from sugar, cells rely on two major types of catabolic pathways: cellular respiration and fermentation. ATP is a special molecule used by cells as their “energy currency.” ATP supplies energy for other cellular processes: cell movement and division, membrane transport, and anabolic pathways enabling growth. Anabolic pathways use energy stored in ATP for building complex molecules from simpler ones. Living organisms that do not do photosynthesis indirectly depend on the sun as the ultimate source of energy, because they derive their energy from food that is biological in origin. Although consumers may eat each other, the energy in organic matter can eventually be traced back to photosynthetic producers. Errors in regulation of metabolism affect energy balance of living organisms and may result in health problems, such as diabetes and obesity. All of these functions require energy. To make a cell, many molecules must be combined, and it takes energy to build these complex structures. When they are replaced by stronger, more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released that can be captured by the cell and used to do work. In cells, certain high-energy molecules contain many unstable bonds and are used for fuel. In this unit, you will learn how cells manage to capture this energy and use it to do work (e.g., power movement or build new macromolecules). Energy and carbon flow through the biosphere in a tightly coupled manner. The coupling between energy and carbon is accomplished within an organism through the process known as metabolism. In the Energy module, you will learn about adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the universal energy carrier in cells, and about how energy is transformed and transferred during metabolic reactions. Anabolic pathways involve the use of energy and simple organic building blocks to create more complex molecules. Catabolic pathways convert complex molecules to simpler ones, releasing energy for use by the organism. ATP then transfers energy to drive many important processes in cells including movement, transport, and synthesis. In this way, the energy from the sun is transformed to chemical energy in molecules such as glucose and ATP. Eventually energy is released in forms like motion, heat, sound, or light. In fact, most of the energy is lost as heat, only a small fraction is used to do work. Together they form a cycle comprising the general flow of energy through the biosphere. Sunlight provides the essential source of energy. Plants and other photosynthetic organisms capture this energy, and through a chemical reaction with carbon dioxide and water, the photosynthesis process converts the light energy to chemical energy, and produces glucose and oxygen. The process of metabolism breaks these complex biomolecules into simple molecules with the release of energy. The most common form of energy is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This high energy phosphorylated compound is used as a energy source in many cellular processes and for bio-mechanical functions, such as muscle contraction or ion transport across membranes. The resultant compounds and energy released from food are used to synthesize complex molecules for the specialized needs of the cell or organism. For example, carbohydrates are good sources of energy. That way, there is some extra energy stored and easily accessible for the muscle cells to use for the big race. Reactions that release energy are called exergonic (“exer” refers to “out” and “gonic” refers to “energy,” so these are “energy out” reactions). Reactions that require energy are called endergonic (“energy in”). For example, building ATP from ADP and a phosphate molecule requires energy (it is an endergonic reaction). The transformation of ingested food to energy and simple compounds, or the synthesis of complex molecules, is performed by a series of enzymatic reactions. The energy that is released by catabolic reactions can be captured and used in many ways. Some of the energy is released as heat and increases the temperature of the cell. Sometimes the energy is stored in the chemical bonds of another molecule. Catabolic pathways generally are degradative, releasing energy and electrons from oxidative processes; i.e., the electrons, which are carried on organic electron carriers, can be used to generate additional energy, or can be used for synthetic purposes. Some of the energy released by this process is captured in ATP, which can be stored for later use. Anabolic reactions (also referred to as "anabolism") use energy to build more complex molecules from relatively simple raw materials. Synthetic, or anabolic pathways consume energy and are generally reductive, requiring electrons. This energy cannot be “made” from nothing, because energy cannot be created or destroyed. But energy can be transferred and transformed. Energy that is available to the cell must somehow be packaged in useful form and delivered where it is needed. This problem is solved through chemical transfers of energy from catabolic reactions to energy carriers and then from the energy carriers to the substrates that are joined in anabolic reactions. Life’s universal energy carrier is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP acts as a shuttle that transfers energy from catabolic reactions that release energy from complex molecules (such as cellular respiration) to the anabolic reactions that consume energy (such as protein synthesis). The energy released from catabolic reactions can be stored for later use through the formation of ATP by combining ADP plus a phosphate group. Then, when energy is required for anabolic reactions, ATP can be broken down into ADP and a phosphate group, releasing energy that was stored in the phosphate bond. Check your understanding of how energy is shuttled from catabolic reactions (which release energy) to anabolic reactions (which require energy). The big red and yellow arrows are indicating how energy flows between the chemical reactions. Adenosine triphosphate, or ATP, is an organic molecule that acts as the direct energy source for almost all cellular activities. Consequently it is never used for the long-term storage of energy in the cell. ATP is specialized for direct and rapid transfers of energy. It is because of this instability that ATP is such a good energy currency for the cell (it’s easy to “spend” this energy). ATP is like cash, while long-term energy storage molecules (such as fats and sugars) are more like a savings account. ATP is an important molecule in biological systems because of its high energy phosphate bonds. Energy is stored as chemical energy. Energy is released when ATP reacts with water to form ADP or AMP. Here's how: Cells gain energy stored in ATP by transferring the terminal phosphate group. The chemical bond between the last two phosphates is unstable, and reactions that involve the removal of the terminal (last) phosphate release energy. The net result of ATP hydrolysis is the release of energy. ATP, the molecule with the higher energy content, can react to form ADP + P. This chemical reaction can also be reversed and, in so doing, cells replenish ATP. We know the first reaction (ATP → ADP + P) releases energy. Therefore, the second reaction (ADP + P → ATP) requires energy. When you use the energy stored in the rechargeable battery, it is like using up ATP (ATP hydrolysis). When you recharge the battery, you must put energy in (by plugging it into the electrical socket). This is like ATP formation, which is usually fueled by chemical energy extracted from sugar or fats. Virtually all the activities of the cell are powered by the energy released when ATP loses its terminal phosphate. For example, ATP hydrolysis provides the energy needed to form complex molecules from simpler ones (synthesis). ATP can also transfer energy by making proteins change shape when ATP is converted to ADP. The energy difference between ATP and ADP is largely due to the interaction between the negatively charged phosphate groups in each molecule. Energy is therefore required to move two negative charges close to each other, which is what happens when ATP is made from ADP and phosphate. This is similar to the way in which energy is required to bring the two north poles of a bar magnet together. Examine the following figure, which illustrates the change in energy found within a chemical system as a phosphate ion is slowly brought closer to an ADP molecule. As the negatively charged phosphate gets closer to the negatively charged ADP molecule, more energy is required to overcome the particles' natural tendency to repel each other. A reaction will be spontaneous in the forward direction if the Gibbs free energy for that reaction is less than zero. The same reaction, if run in the reverse direction, will have a positive Gibbs free energy and will therefore be non-spontaneous. If it is necessary to reverse the direction of this reaction to reverse the direction of the pathway, then the sign of the GIbbs free energy for the reverse reaction has to become negative. If you recall, the Gibbs free energy: consists of two parts, the standard energy change, Go, and a term that accounts for the non-equilibrium concentrations of [A] and [B]. Consequently, an unfavorable reaction with a positive Gibbs free energy can be made spontaneous by making the sum of these two terms negative by coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable, energy releasing one. The energy releasing reaction provides the necessary energy to change the sign of the Gibbs free energy from positive to negative. There are two forms of coupling, both may be used to ensure a negative Gibbs free energy, direct and indirect coupling. Direct coupling reduces the standard free energy while indirect coupling reduces the second term of the equation. The standard energy change of +14 kJ/mol makes the Gibbs energy positive. However, if the unfavorable reaction is coupled to the conversion of ATP to ADP within the active site of the enzyme hexose kinase the 30 kJ of energy released from ATP can be utilized to reduce the standard energy change such that the overall Gibbs free energy becomes negative. The overall reaction is the transfer of phosphate from ATP to glucose, with an overall standard energy change of approximately -15 kJ/mol. Note that the two half-reactions sum to give the complete reaction, both in terms of the compounds involved as well as the overall standard energy change. The Gibbs free energy can also become negative by either having a favorable reaction that preceeds the unfavorable one, or a favorable reaction that follows the unfavorable one. If the preceeding step ([A] to [B]) is very favorable, the concentration of [B] increases to a level above its equilibrium level, which decreases the Gibbs free energy for step [B] to [C]. Alternatively, if the following step ([C] to [D]) is favorable, the concentration of [C] will be lower than its equilbrium level, which also decreases the Gibbs free energy for the step [B] to [C]. In this module, you learned about energy. Energy flows through living systems and cannot be recycled or reused. Eventually, energy is released as heat, and while this heat can be beneficial (it keeps us warm), it cannot be captured again and used to sustain the processes of life. Living organisms can then go through the process of cellular respiration (a catabolic process) to transform the energy stored in the glucose into ATP, which is used to do work in the cell. In this module, you learned about energy. Energy flows through living systems and cannot be recycled or reused. Eventually, energy is released as heat, and while this heat can be beneficial (it keeps us warm), it cannot be captured again and used to sustain the processes of life. Living organisms can then go through the process of cellular respiration (a catabolic process) to transform the energy stored in the glucose into ATP, which is used to do work in the cell. Energy and carbon flow through the biosphere in a tightly coupled manner. The coupling between energy and carbon is accomplished within an organism through the process known as metabolism. These will be covered in the module “ Common characteristics of metabolic pathways .” In the modules dedicated to Energy and " ATP: The Universal Energy Carrier in Cells " you will learn, in more detail, how energy is transformed and transferred during metabolic reactions. Anabolic pathways involve the use of energy and simple organic building blocks to create more complex molecules. Catabolic pathways convert complex molecules to simpler ones, releasing energy for use by the organism. Cells in living organisms have two basic requirements: energy and carbon. Cells require a source of high-energy electrons to produce chemical energy and a source of carbon-containing molecules that can be used to synthesize proteins, fatty acids, and other molecules. The principle source of energy for all organisms on earth is the sun. This light energy is absorbed by photosynthetic organisms such as plants and algae and used to convert carbon dioxide (CO2) to glucose and oxygen during photosynthesis. The end result is that the energy from the sun has been stored in glucose, a small six-carbon carbohydrate. Humans (and all other organisms, including plants) use glucose as food, and release the energy in glucose through a process called respiration. However, in cells, respiration more specifically is the process of breaking down large molecules (nutrients, such as glucose) into simpler molecules including some of the energy released and stored as chemical energy in the molecule, adenosine triphosphate (ATP). During aerobic respiration, the carbon atoms in glucose combine with oxygen to produce CO2; the glucose is oxidized, releasing energy. The energy from the oxidation of glucose is stored in a small chemical called ATP for immediate use by the cell. ATP is used for almost all of the energy needs of the cell, from the synthesis of other complex molecules to doing mechanical work, such as running. Many microorganisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose in the absence of oxygen (anaerobic growth); the most common form of this process is fermentation. The energy stored in ethanol can be used as fuel for our internal combustion engines. In this way, the organism is able to optimize the use of its carbon and energy resources. Glycolysis will occur if the cell requires energy. The glycolysis pathway is regulated to turn glycolysis on or off, depending on the energy needs of the cell. There would be two dire consequences if the energy that is stored in food were to be released immediately after consumption. First, the organism would run out of energy quickly and would therefore have to consume food all the time, which is not possible for most organisms, especially mammals, which need to sleep. Secondly, the heat that would be released by the production of energy would raise the temperature of the organism to intolerable levels. In this way the organism is able to optimize the use of its carbon and energy resources. The glycolysis pathway is regulated to turn glycolysis on or off, depending on the energy needs of the cell. There would be two dire consequences if the energy that is stored in food were to be released immediately after consumption. First, the organism would run out of energy quickly and have have to consume food all of the time, which isn’t possible for most organisms, especially mammals who need to sleep. Secondly, the heat that would be released by the production of energy would raise the temperature of the organism to intolerable levels. Secondly, the heat that would be released by the production of energy would raise the temperature of the organism to intolerable levels. Energy and carbon flow through the biosphere in a tightly coupled manner. The coupling between energy and carbon is accomplished within an organism through the process known as metabolism. These will be covered in the module “ Common characteristics of metabolic pathways .” In the modules dedicated to Energy and " ATP: The Universal Energy Carrier in Cells " you will learn, in more detail, how energy is transformed and transferred during metabolic reactions. Anabolic pathways involve the use of energy and simple organic building blocks to create more complex molecules. Catabolic pathways convert complex molecules to simpler ones, releasing energy for use by the organism. The principle source of energy for all organisms on earth is the sun. This energy is absorbed by photosynthetic organisms, such as plants and algae and used to convert carbon dioxide (CO2) to glucose and oxygen during photosynthesis. The end result is that the energy from the sun has been stored in glucose, a small six carbon carbohydrate. Humans (and all other organisms, including plants) use glucose as food, and release the energy in glucose through a process called respiration. During this process the carbon atoms in glucose combine with oxygen to produce CO2; the glucose is oxidized, releasing energy. The energy from the oxidation of glucose is stored in a small chemical called ATP (adenosine triphosphate) for immediate use by the cell. ATP is used for almost all of the energy needs of the cell, from the synthesis of other complex molecules to doing mechanical work, such as running. Many microorganisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose in the absence of oxygen (anerobic growth), the most common form of this process is fermentation. The energy stored in ethanol can be used as a fuel for our internal combustion engines. In this way the organism is able to optimize the use of its carbon and energy resources. The glycolysis pathway is regulated to turn glycolysis on or off, depending on the energy needs of the cell. There would be two dire consequences if the energy that is stored in food were to be released immediately after consumption. First, the organism would run out of energy quickly and have have to consume food all of the time, which isn’t possible for most organisms, especially mammals who need to sleep. Generally, degradative (catabolic) pathways cause the net oxidation of compounds, releasing energy. Energy is defined as the capacity to do work. Energy is recognized by what it DOES: it makes “work” happen. Energy exists in many forms. Some biologically important forms of energy are light energy, electrical energy, sound energy, and thermal or heat energy. Kinetic energy is the energy of motion. Potential energy is stored energy. Energy can change forms and often transforms from potential to kinetic energy, and back. In biology, a key form of potential energy is chemical energy: the energy stored in chemical bonds. Chemical energy is released when wood is burned: the bonds in the wood are broken, releasing light and heat energy.  Energy can be converted from one form to another. In the image below, the chemical energy in the wood is converted to light and heat. Energy in our biosphere is a one-way system: It comes from the sun, is captured by living organisms, and eventually is released back out as heat. Energy cannot be created or destroyed. Instead, energy is transformed from one form to another. Your body’s movement (kinetic energy) is fueled by chemical energy from your food. As you move uphill, your body’s chemical potential energy decreases (you break down molecules and use up stored food energy). At the same time, your body’s gravitational potential energy increases. This kind of potential energy can be released by letting an object drop from a height. Where does chemical energy in food come from? The sun provides solar energy, the energy source for most living things. The energy stored in sugar can be released and used to build other types of biological molecules (proteins, lipids, etc. ), which also contain stored chemical energy in their complex structures. Energy cannot be created or destroyed. Instead, energy is transformed from one form to another. Your body’s movement (kinetic energy) is fueled by chemical energy from your food. As you move uphill, your body’s chemical potential energy decreases (you break down molecules and use up stored food energy). At the same time, your body’s gravitational potential energy increases. This kind of potential energy can be released by letting an object drop from a height. Where does chemical energy in food come from? The sun provides solar energy, the energy source for most living things. The energy stored in sugar can be released and used to build other types of biological molecules (proteins, lipids, etc.) which also contain stored chemical energy in their complex structures. However, the sun is fueled by nuclear energy generated by atoms colliding in its incredibly hot core. This illustrates an inescapable fact about energy: it tends to lose quality over time. It is a low form of energy, disorderly, and spreads out rapidly through most materials. Every kind of energy conversion generates at least some heat energy as a byproduct. For example, the breakdown and use of chemical energy in food also releases heat. Heat can be helpful in keeping our bodies warm, but for the most part heat energy is a loss: an energy waste that cannot be recovered. The production of ATP from "high-energy" electrons on NADH and FADH2 occurs in two steps, electron transport followed by ATP synthesis. The energy obtained from electron transport is stored as a pH gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The electrochemical gradient is a form of potential energy that is utilized by the enzyme ATP synthase to convert ADP to ATP. Since the standard energy for the formation of ATP from ADP and Pi is +30 kJ/mol the transport of three protons must release at least 30kJ/mol in order to provide enough energy to synthesize ATP. The amount of energy that is stored in the protein gradient can be obtained by calculating the Gibbs free energy. The Gibbs free energy consists of two terms. The first indicates the energy change due to the difference of proton concentration across the membrane. The second term accounts for the fact that the energy of a charged particle depends on the voltage. If there is a voltage difference across the membrane then the energy of the proton will depend on its location. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy change under these conditions at 300 K is:  The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. These high energy compounds ultimately deposit their electrons on oxygen, forming water. The energy that is released by electron transport is stored as a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The energy released when carbon-containing molecules are broken down is captured and used to generate ATP molecules; some energy is also lost as heat. The energy that is released by the transfer of electrons from NADH to water is used to transport a total of 10 protons across the inner membrane.  The energy that has been stored in the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane cannot be easily utilized by other processes in the cell. The enzyme ATP synthase is responsible for converting the energy stored in the proton gradient to ATP. Pathways related to the harvesting of energy (chemical or solar) and biosynthesis of the major cellular components are conserved in many types of cells and organisms. Many organisms use energy harvesting pathways other than photosynthesis and cellular respiration. Fermentation breaks down organic molecules and stores energy as ATP. Instead, fermentation ends with complex products (lactate, ethanol) that still contain quite a bit of chemical potential energy. The breakdown process is incomplete, and relatively little energy is available to drive the production of ATP. Pathways related to the harvesting of energy (chemical or solar) and biosynthesis of the major cellular components are conserved in many types of cells and organisms. Many organisms use energy harvesting pathways other than photosynthesis and cellular respiration. Fermentation breaks down organic molecules and stores energy as ATP. Instead, fermentation ends with complex products (lactate, ethanol) that still contain quite a bit of chemical potential energy. The breakdown process is incomplete, and relatively little energy is available to drive the production of ATP. Instructions: The left panel shows the energy changes that occur for each of the ten steps in glycolysis in the absence of coupling. The right panel shows the actual energy changes during the normal operation of glycolysis. These energy changes include contributions from both direct and indirect coupling. Note that the energy content of two ATP molecules is required to initiate the pathway. The energy stored in NADH is extracted during electron transport. This enzyme catalyzes the diffusion of glucose across the membrane without the input of energy. The Gibbs free energy for the transport of glucose is: Although this expression for the Gibbs free energy appears different than previous expressions, it is really the same equation. The difference in standard free energy, Go, is zero because the reactants and products are the same compound, differing only in their location. All living things require energy to survive. For humans, and many other organisms, that energy is generated by the complex interaction of the cellular respiration and photosynthetic pathways. In the process of cellular respiration, energy that is stored in the food that we eat is converted to the body’s energy module, ATP. As the reaction proceeds, high energy electrons and hydrogen ions (H+) are transferred from the organic molecule to the O2. Because the rapid transfer of the electrons and H+ would generate an unusable form of energy (heat), the transfer utilizes enzyme carriers called NAD+ and FAD+. These molecules are universal electron carriers that facilitate the transfer of electrons and energy. As we have emphasized thus far, cells juggle energy through opposing reactions. Photosynthesis is an anabolic pathway fueled by solar energy that allows the synthesis of organic molecules from simple raw materials. The electron carriers NADH and FADH2 carry high energy electrons. These high energy electrons are passed from one protein to the next. At each stage, the electrons lose energy. This loss in energy is used to create a concentration gradient of protons (H+). This protein works like a water wheel and transforms the energy from the movement of the protons into the chemical energy of ATP. Energy is released in small portions, so that some of the released energy can be captured in chemical bonds, ultimately as ATP. Even though glucose is the starting substance used in cellular respiration, organisms do not consume pure glucose as an energy source. The energy released when carbon-containing molecules are broken down is captured and used to generate ATP molecules; some energy is also lost as heat. Splitting the bonds of glucose releases enough energy to make 2 ATP and 2 NADH molecules. The energy released from this process is used to build 1 ATP, 3 NADH, and 1 FADH2. Anabolic reactions use energy to build complex molecules, while catabolic reactions harvest the energy stored in the complex molecules by breaking them down into simple precursors. Catabolic reactions produce the energy required for anabolic reactions. Anabolic reactions use energy to build complex molecules, while catabolic reactions harvest the energy stored in the complex molecules by breaking them down into simple precursors. Catabolic reactions produce the energy required for anabolic reactions. Photosynthetic organisms use light energy and simple building blocks (carbon dioxide and water) to make their own food. This is how the cycling between photosynthesis and cellular respiration occurs: in photosynthesis, carbon dioxide and water, in the presence of light energy, are converted to make glucose and oxygen; while in cellular respiration, the products of photosynthesis (glucose and oxygen) are metabolized to make energy in the form of ATP and heat, releasing carbon dioxide and water. Photosynthetic organisms use light energy and simple building blocks (carbon dioxide and water) to make their own food. This is how the cycling between photosynthesis and cellular respiration occurs: in photosynthesis, carbon dioxide and water, in the presence of light energy, are converted to make glucose and oxygen; while in cellular respiration, the products of photosynthesis (glucose and oxygen) are metabolized to make energy in the form of ATP and heat, releasing carbon dioxide and water. Plants, algae, and some bacteria can use light energy to turn carbon dioxide and water into simple sugars through the process of photosynthesis. These sugars can act as “building blocks” for the synthesis of other organic molecules, or they can store energy for later use. While the process of photosynthesis stores chemical energy for later use, most photosynthetic organisms access the stored energy the same way consumers do: they break down the sugars to build ATP using the process of cellular respiration, which occurs in subcellular organelles called mitochondria. Photosynthetic producers have evolved an effective system for absorbing light and converting it into chemical energy. This biochemical solar energy system begins with a diverse array of (mostly green) pigments that are embedded in membranes.  The main purpose of photosynthesis is to convert energy from sunlight and store it as bond energy within sugars. Photosynthesis uses pigments (such as chlorophyll) in the chloroplasts to absorb light energy. This energy is used to produce sugars from carbon dioxide, while oxygen is given off as a byproduct. They are faced with a challenge involving the attenuation (loss) of light energy with increasing depth.  The main purpose of photosynthesis is to convert energy from sunlight and store it as bond energy within sugars. Photosynthesis uses pigments (such as chlorophyll) in the chloroplasts to absorb light energy. This energy is used to produce sugars from carbon dioxide, while oxygen is given off as a byproduct. They are faced with a challenge involving the attenuation (loss) of light energy with increasing depth. But “light” is a complex form of energy. In a given period of time, short wavelengths deliver more energy to a surface than longer wavelengths. Thus blue light is higher in energy than red light. Pigments are colored substances that absorb light energy. What happens to light energy that is absorbed by a pigment? In keeping with the law of conservation of energy, this energy does not disappear. Instead, it excites electrons in the pigment, boosting them to higher energy levels. In plants, the excited electrons from some pigments are transferred to other molecules, where they start the transformation of light energy into chemical potential energy. At this point, the pigment will release energy. In some pigments, a portion of the released energy is emitted as light. All pigments release at least some of the energy they absorbed from light as heat. But “light” is a complex form of energy. In a given period of time, short wavelengths deliver more energy to a surface than longer wavelengths. Thus blue light is higher in energy than red light. Pigments are colored substances that absorb light energy. What happens to light energy that is absorbed by a pigment? In keeping with the law of conservation of energy, this energy does not disappear. Instead, it excites electrons in the pigment, boosting them to higher energy levels. In plants, the excited electrons from some pigments are transferred to other molecules, where they start the transformation of light energy into chemical potential energy. At this point, the pigment will release energy. In some pigments, a portion of the released energy is emitted as light. All pigments release at least some of the energy they absorbed from light as heat. The main purpose of photosynthesis is to convert energy from sunlight and store it as bond energy within sugars. This energy is used to produce sugars and also produces oxygen as a product. Plants and other photosynthetic organisms use light energy to build sugars (C6H12O6) for energy storage. As a result, activation energy is reduced and the reaction proceeds much more quickly than it otherwise would. In the previous modules, you learned about metabolic pathways in cells — those “freeways” that shuttle energy and carbon in different directions. Anabolic pathways build things up and catabolic pathways break them back down again, sometimes as a source of energy, other times to obtain building materials. As a result, the activation energy is reduced and the reaction proceeds much more quickly than it otherwise would. For example, some of the reactions that are part of cellular respiration (which is a catabolic pathway) can become anabolic when there is a surplus of energy. Catabolic and Anabolic Reactions Animals use fats and complex carbohydrates such as glycogen for long-term energy storage. When energy is needed, catabolic pathways degrade lipids and glycogen to glucose or other intermediates of the cellular respiration pathway, resulting in ATP production. For example, some of the reactions that are part of cellular respiration (which is a catabolic pathway) can become anabolic when there is a surplus of energy. But the energy stored in the food’s chemical bonds cannot be destroyed. This energy is stored when enzymes catalyze the formation of new chemical bonds to create specific kinds of macromolecules (i.e., glycogen, fat, and protein), which tends to increase overall body mass. One kilocalorie is the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water by one degree Celsius. It is the unit typically used when discussing human nutrition and energy balance. Remember that energy is stored within chemical bonds, and so it is the chemical bonds within glycogen and fat molecules that contain energy. How are caloric intake and energy output balanced? Second, loss of weight also has effects on a person’s energy output. A bacterial cell that depletes glucose in its environment will not die of starvation if an alternative energy source is available. Bacteria can use a wide variety of carbon sources as fuel to extract energy for growth. It is less efficient for bacteria to use lactose as an energy source because they must take additional steps to convert lactose into a form that can be used to extract energy. However, when lactose is present and glucose is not, the bacteria “turn on,” or synthesize, the enzymes required for lactose metabolism, allowing the bacteria to use lactose for energy. Bacteria can use a wide variety of carbon sources as fuel to extract energy for growth. It is less efficient for bacteria to use lactose as an energy source because they must take additional steps to convert lactose into a form that can be used to extract energy. However, when lactose is present and glucose is not, the bacteria “turn on,” or synthesize, the enzymes required for lactose metabolism, allowing the bacteria to use lactose for energy. Assume that there is an operon in E. coli, called the Chol operon, that included the genes A, B and C encoding enzymes necessary for the utilization of cholesterol as an alternative carbon and energy source. This reaction requires energy (usually ATP) and requires that the two pieces of DNA that are being joined are close to each other. During digestion and metabolism, food is broken down into simpler substances (including some waste products), and some of those simpler substances—for example, simple sugars—can be metabolized in a way that they release energy, especially when oxygen is present. The energy produced by contracting muscles (such as when shivering) in the muscle system helps keep us warm. The sympathetic nervous system controls functions that speed up the heart and increase energy usage during emergencies or times of stress. Examples include many salmon and annual plants, which put all of their energy into a single reproductive effort. Common characteristics of biotic (living) things are that they use energy and raw materials to grow, sense and respond to changing environments; they reproduce; and they consist of one or more cells. Consumers get their energy and nutrients from such food molecules.  Diagram that shows the energy available at each trophic level in an ecosystem Organisms that use simple materials, such as water and carbon dioxide, as nutrients and use an outside source of energy (e.g., energy from sunlight) to make their own food from these materials. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a nucleotide; that is, an organic molecule that acts as the direct energy source for almost all cellular activities. It is however a relatively unstable molecule; consequently, it is never used for the long-term storage of energy in the cell. ATP is specialized for direct and rapid transfers of energy. A diagram that shows the energy available at each trophic level in an ecosystem. The pattern of energy flow in an ecosystem from producers (bottom of the pyramid) to the highest trophic level consumer (levels 2 and up) -- where only about 10% of the available energy in one trophic level is incorporated and stored as calories in the bodies of the next level up. The result of this is a pyramid in which energy availability decreases as the trophic levels increase. Remember that any energy not transferred to the next higher trophic level is released as undigested materials in feces or is dissipated as heat. Fermentation breaks down organic molecules and stores energy as ATP. Instead, they end with organic molecules that still contain considerable chemical potential energy. When food intake is insufficient, glycogen can be broken down into glucose for energy. The energy of motion -- illustrated by the jumping stick figure below. Anabolic reactions use energy to build more complex molecules from relatively simple raw materials. Lipids perform many functions in the cell including: storage of energy for long-term use in the form of fats, insulation from the environment, and building blocks for hormones. The diffusion of a substance across a biological membrane without any input of energy. A metabolic pathway that uses light energy to build carbohydrates from CO2. Pigments are colored substances that absorb light energy. The light energy absorbed by these pigments can be converted to chemical energy in the process of photosynthesis. Stored energy. Energy stored in chemical bonds (chemical energy) is a type of potential energy. Potential energy can be released to do work. In the illustration below, when the spring is coiled it has potential energy. The potential energy is released when the spring stretches. Organisms that make simple organic food molecules from inorganic raw materials using light energy from the sun and do not consume other living organisms to obtain nutrients. A type of lipid (also known as fats and oils) used to store energy long term. Common characteristics of biotic (living) things are that they use energy and raw materials to grow, sense and respond to changing environments; they reproduce; and they consist of one or more cells. A catalyst increases the rate of a reaction, by decreasing the activation energy required for the reaction to take place. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. A metabolic pathway that uses stored chemical energy from foods (such as glucose) to build ATP. The energy stored in chemical bonds. Chemical energy can be released when certain bonds are broken. Chemical energy is released when wood is burned: the bonds in the wood are broken, releasing light and heat energy. Chemical energy stored in ATP is used to run many cellular processes. Chemical energy stored in foods is used to build ATP. A plant pigment used to absorb light energy for photosynthesis. Its primary function is to capture solar energy and convert it into chemical energy through the process of photosynthesis. Chloroplast absorbs sunlight energy and uses the energy to power the synthesis of organic food molecules (sugars). The amount of energy required by a chemical reaction in order for the reaction to occur. All chemical reactions require some amount of activation energy. Unlike cellular respiration, combustion is not a viable option for organisms to extract chemical energy. Consumers get their energy and nutrients from such food molecules. The movement of a substance across a biological membrane against its concentration gradient, aided by specific transport proteins and requiring input of energy (often as ATP). Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction.

10. [u'hydrogenated', u'hydrogen bonds', u'bond']
  Remember that ionic and hydrogen bonds are weak non-covalent bonds representing 5 Kcal/mole each.only 5 kcal/mol in strength. At low pH hydrogen bond acceptors such as carboxyl groups become protonated. If they are protonated then they cannot form the critical ionic bonds between the protein and the ligand. Remember that ionic and hydrogen bonds are weak non-covalent bonds representing 5 Kcal/mole each.only 5 kcal/mol in strength. At low pH hydrogen bond acceptors such as carboxyl groups become protonated. If they are protonated then they cannot form the critical ionic bonds between the protein and the ligand. Binding the ligand is based on energetically favorable non-covalent interactions, such as hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding, and hydrophobic interactions. hydrogen bonding hydrophobic interactions, ionic bonds One effect is to decrease the hydrogen bonding between enzyme and substrate. Remember that hydrogen bonds are only 5 kcal/mol in strength. The protein is held together in part by hydrogen bonds. As with substrate binding, hydrogen bonds are too weak to hold up in high heat. The shared electron pair of each oxygen-hydrogen covalent bond, illustrated below, spends more time associated with the oxygen atom than the hydrogen atom. This results in the oxygen being partially negative, and the hydrogen partially positive, as indicated in the figure below by δ- and δ+. These are then described as a polar covalent bonds. Ionic bonds are interactions between oppositely charged ions. Upon investigation of bonding, students should distinguish hydrogen bonds from chemical bonds and be able to: In the ammonium ion, the addition of a fourth hydrogen, to form NH4+, places the fourth hydrogen at the last unoccupied corner of the tetrahydron. Instructions: One additional hydrogen has been replaced by bromine (colored purple).  Three major types of chemical bonding have been described thus far: covalent bonding, and two forms of non-covalent bonding, ionic and hydrogen. Hydrogen bonding was covered in Water -- Hydrogen Bonding (go there now.) Hydrogen bonding is a critical bonding in the cell. It is the principal bonding that holds the tertiary structure of proteins, carbohydrates and nucleic acids together and the overall stability of these molecules is due in part to the cumulative effect of the large number of hydrogen bonds found in the functional structures. Hydrogen bonds are found in and between a variety of molecules. For example, the enormous number of hydrogen bonds between strands of cellulose provide the strength and structure of the plant cell wall.  Covalent bonds are the strongest. The bonds can be between the same element (e.g., C-C bonds) or between different elements (e.g., C-O, C-N, H-O). The non-covalent bonds, ionic and hydrogen, and hydrophobic interactions, have approximately 5 kcals/mol associated with each of them. However, hydrogen bonds generally form extensive networks, and the total energy associated with the network is the sum of the individual interactions. Triple bonds. Although carbon can form triple bonds, such as in the compound acetylene (HCCH), triple bonds are not found in biological systems. As discussed earlier, the bonds between the hydrogen and oxygen atoms of water are polar, due to the fact that oxygen is electron withdrawing and hydrogen is willing to give up its lone electron. Upon investigation of bonding, students should distinguish hydrogen bonds from chemical bonds and be able to: In the ammonium ion, the addition of a fourth hydrogen, to form NH4+, places the fourth hydrogen at the last unoccupied corner of the tetrahydron. Instructions: One additional hydrogen has been replaced by bromine (colored purple).  Three major types of chemical bonding have been described thus far: covalent bonding, and two forms of non-covalent bonding, ionic and hydrogen. Hydrogen bonding was covered in Water -- Hydrogen Bonding (go there now.) Hydrogen bonding is a critical bonding in the cell. It is the principal bonding that holds the tertiary structure of proteins, carbohydrates and nucleic acids together and the overall stability of these molecules is due in part to the cumulative effect of the large number of hydrogen bonds found in the functional structures. Hydrogen bonds are found in and between a variety of molecules. For example, the enormous number of hydrogen bonds between strands of cellulose provide the strength and structure of the plant cell wall.  Covalent bonds are the strongest. The bonds can be between the same element (e.g., C-C bonds) or between different elements (e.g., C-O, C-N, H-O). The non-covalent bonds, ionic and hydrogen, and hydrophobic interactions, have approximately 5 kcals/mol associated with each of them. However, hydrogen bonds generally form extensive networks, and the total energy associated with the network is the sum of the individual interactions. Triple bonds. Although carbon can form triple bonds, such as in the compound acetylene (HCCH), triple bonds are not found in biological systems. As discussed earlier, the bonds between the hydrogen and oxygen atoms of water are polar, due to the fact that oxygen is electron withdrawing and hydrogen is willing to give up its lone electron. Oxygen is electronegative and draws the electrons that it shares in the covalent bond with hydrogen towards itself. However, only hydrogens covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Due to the wide range of Ka, it is more practical to represent the Ka on a minus log scale, in the same way as the hydrogen ion concentration. Due to the wide range of Ka, it is more practical to represent the Ka on a minus log scale, in the same way as the hydrogen ion concentration. pH is the measure of the concentration of positively charged hydrogen ions in an aqueous solution. pH stands for -log[H+], where [H+] is read hydrogen ion concentration.  The hydrogen ion concentration, [H+] of a solution is an important property because biological systems contains functional groups whose properties are changed by changes in the hydrogen ion concentration. Since the hydrogen ion concentations are usually much less than one, and can vary over many orders of magnitude, a different scale is used for the hydrogen ion concentration, the pH scale. The log conversion reduces a 10 fold change in hydrogen ion concentration to a one unit change in pH.  The hydrogen ion concentration, [H+] of a solution is an important property because biological systems contains functional groups whose properties are changed by changes in the hydrogen ion concentration. Since the hydrogen ion concentations are usually much less than one, and can vary over many orders of magnitude, a different scale is used for the hydrogen ion concentration, the pH scale. The log conversion reduces a 10 fold change in hydrogen ion concentration to a one unit change in pH. The individual peptides or sub-units of estrogen and hemoglobin are held together by all of the non-covalent bonding types: hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding and hydrophobic interactions . The individual peptides or sub-units of estrogen and hemoglobin are held together by all of the non-covalent bonding types: hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding and hydrophobic interactions . These structures involve short range interactions that involve hydrogen bonding between peptide bonds and do not involve the interactions of amino acid side chains. The hydrogen bonds are parallel to the long axis of the helix and the side chains extend to the outside of the helical cylinder. The structures are stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the strands and the anti-parallel structure appears to be more stable due to maximization of the number of possible hydrogen bonds. In the case of a -sheet the hydrogen bonds are in the plane of the sheet and perpendicular to the peptide chain.  Iconic bonds Hydrogen bonds Hydrophobic/van der Walls interactions -helices and -sheets are stabilized by hydrogen bonding.  Iconic bonds Hydrogen bonds Hydrophobic/van der Walls interactions -helices and -sheets are stabilized by hydrogen bonding. The bases, sugars and phosphodiester bonds are alternately highlighted. You should apply the definition of the hydrogen bond to form all possible hydrogen bonds in any pair of bases you choose. On the previous page you determined that the most stable complimentary base pairing takes place between A and T with two hydrogen bonds and between G and C with three hydrogen bonds in DNA. In each case these comlimentary base pairings included a purine hydrogen bonded to a pyrimidine. This means that the distance between the attachment sites for the sugar in all the base pairs are identical giving uniform dimensions to the distance between the two backbones along the length of two strands that are hydrogen bonded together.  the chains are antiparallel the two chains are held together by hydrogen bonding between bases the stability of the DNA is directly proportional to the number of hydrogen bonds between chains hydrogen bonding between strands of DNA and RNA follow the pattern A hydrogen bonded through two bonds to T in DNA A hydrogen bonded through two bonds to U in RNA G hydrogen bonded through three bonds to C in both DNA and RNA As a general rule, hybridization will take place to maximize the number of hydrogen bonds that can be formed between two polynucleotide strands. However, another structural limitation is placed on the formation of the hydrogen bonds between two lengths of polynucleotide strands: the strands must be anti-parallel to each other. This short duplex structure is anti-parallel and has 15 hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. The stability of double stranded DNA is due to two factors, hydrogen bonds and base stacking. Hydrogen bonds provide an attractive force between the strands while base stacking (van der Waals) stabilizes the helical structure. The Jmol below shows the stacking of the bases and illustrates the hydrogen bonding pattern for a GC basepair. The stability of the DNA is to some extent determined by the number of hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. The increase in absorbance is referred to as the hyperchromic effect and is a measure of the breaking of the hydrogen bonds between the bases and the separation of the two strands. The most important type of interaction between the bases is hydrogen bonding. If bases on two strands have complimentary hydrogen bonding properties they can form a basepair. The combination of a concentration difference of hydrogen ions and a voltage difference accross this membrane is often referred to as an electrochemical gradient. The combination of a concentration difference of hydrogen ions and a voltage difference accross this membrane is often referred to as an electrochemical gradient. Ionic bonds are interactions between oppositely charged ions. There are three major types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: i) covalent, ii) ionic, and iii) hydrogen bonds. The separation of charge within a molecule (required for hydrogen bonding between molecules) usually occurs where an electronegative element (usually O or N) is bonded to a hydrogen atom. Ions of opposite charge can interact by electrostatic forces, making ionic bonds. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. Another important aspect of biological solutions is pH, or the hydrogen ion concentration. Hydrogen ions are simple structures that have a big impact on living systems. The more hydrogen ions that are found in a substance, the more acidic the substance. Ions of opposite charge can interact by electrostatic forces, making ionic bonds. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. Another important aspect of biological solutions is pH, or the hydrogen ion concentration. Hydrogen ions are simple structures that have a big impact on living systems. The more hydrogen ions that are found in a substance, the more acidic the substance. Ions of opposite charge can interact by electrostatic forces, making ionic bonds. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. There are three major types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: i) covalent, ii) ionic, and iii) hydrogen bonds. Acids are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) donors. The separation of charge within a molecule (required for hydrogen bonding between molecules) usually occurs where an electronegative element (usually oxygen:O or nitrogen:N) is bonded to a hydrogen atom. That is, hydrophilic molecules contain polar functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds with water. Bases are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) acceptors. Substances that are neutral, like pure water, have equal concentrations of hydrogen (H+) and hydroxide (OH-) ions. A measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in a solution. A one-point change in pH is equal to a ten-fold difference in the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+). We first discussed how some atoms will form ions in water while others, in particular carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen, form covalent bonds with each other in organic chemicals. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. Are you able to identify hydrogen bonds and describe their role in the transmission of genetic information? Another important aspect of biological solutions is pH, or the hydrogen ion concentration. For this reason, if you started with one hydrogen atom and added a proton, the original hydrogen would now be helium. A hydrogen atom has one proton and would therefore have an atomic mass of one. One Da is equal to 1.66 x 10-27 kg, which is the mass of a single hydrogen (H) atom. A hydrogen atom that has 1 proton and 1 neutron would have an atomic mass of 2. There are three types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: covalent bonds, ionic bonds, and hydrogen bonds. Covalent bonds are very stable, while ionic and hydrogen bonds are less stable. The relatively weaker ionic bonds and hydrogen bonds allow reversible interactions between different molecules in biological systems. The table below illustrates some similarities and differences among ionic, covalent and hydrogen bonds. Ionic bonds are the interactions between ions of opposite charges. Hydrogen has an atomic number of 1. Hydrogen has an atomic number of 1. It looks like some of the carbons only have two or three covalent bonds! It is assumed you will understand that any “missing” bond is actually provided by a hydrogen atom. You may also notice that this image has different-looking bonds. Notice that the carbon in methane has formed four covalent bonds with four hydrogen atoms. It looks like some of the carbons only have 2 or 3 covalent bonds! It is assumed you will understand that any “missing” bond is actually provided by a hydrogen atom. You may also notice that this image has different looking bonds. Notice that the carbon in methane has formed four covalent bonds with four hydrogen atoms. Hydrogen has an atomic number of 1. Also, note that in the diagram below bonds between O and H are not shown. Some of these molecules exhibit a unique attraction between them, which is referred to as a hydrogen bond. Hydrogen bonding occurs in molecules in which a nitrogen or oxygen atom is bonded to a hydrogen atom. Hydrogen bonding has a significant effect on the properties of molecules. For example, the structure of the DNA molecule is in part held together by hydrogen bonds. Many of the important molecules of life, like DNA, proteins, and even ordinary water, share a key characteristic: they all form hydrogen bonds. Hydrogen bonds are not like the covalent bonds you just learned about. Only hydrogen covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Hydrogen bonding has a significant effect on the properties of molecules. For example, the structure of the DNA molecule is in part held together by hydrogen bonds. Hydrogen bonds also create coils and other structures within the complex protein molecules that are essential to life’s diversity. The water molecule is a very important example of a molecule that can form hydrogen bonds. In a water molecule, oxygen is more electronegative than hydrogen. This means that oxygen has a greater affinity or attraction for the shared electron pair than hydrogen does. As a result, the oxygen becomes slightly negative and each hydrogen atom develops a slightly positive charge. Oxygen and nitrogen are the two highly electronegative elements that are often bonded to hydrogen in biological molecules. O-H and N-H bonds are strongly polar, and this sets the stage for hydrogen bonding. Hydrogen bonding is the attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. However, only hydrogen covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Hydrogen bonds are responsible for many of the unique properties of water. Watch the following animation that illustrates hydrogen bonding. Hydrogen bonding is the attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen atom that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. However, only hydrogens covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. The water molecule is a very important example of a molecule with hydrogen bonds. Oxygen is more electronegative than hydrogen. This means that oxygen has a greater affinity for the electron pair than the hydrogen does. As a result, the oxygen becomes slightly negative and each hydrogen atom is slightly positive. A similar situation occurs whenever hydrogen is bonded to elements that strongly attract electrons. Oxygen and nitrogen are the two such elements that are frequently bonded to hydrogen in biological molecules. Due to the uneven charge distribution, the bond between oxygen and hydrogen is a polar covalent bond. In water, the partially positive hydrogen is attracted to the partially negative oxygen of another water molecule; this attraction is called a hydrogen bond. Hydrogen bonds are responsible for many of the unique properties of water. Hydrogen bonding can occur whenever hydrogen is covalently bound to strongly electronegative elements like oxygen or nitrogen. Hydrogen bonds are important to the structure and function of many large biological molecules. The two strands are loosely connected by hydrogen bonds. Hydrogen bonds are discussed in the Chemical Bonds module. It is surrounded by a cage of water molecules, forming hydrogen bonds (purple) with each other (pdb file modified from Udachin et al., J. Chem. Hydrogen bonds are fairly stable, so quite a bit of energy is released when they are formed. It is surrounded by a cage of water molecules, forming hydrogen bonds (purple) with each other. Hydrogen bonds are fairly stable, so quite a bit of energy is released when they are formed. Similarly, the hydrogen bonds among water molecules make it hard to increase their “jiggling.” As heat is added, hydrogen bonds are broken and water warms up, but due to the hydrogen bonding, the water’s temperature changes only slowly. When water cools down, it releases a great deal of heat as hydrogen bonds are re-established. As these bonds form, heat is released to the surrounding environment. Each water molecule is bound by four hydrogen bonds to its neighbors. Click on “Highlight Void” to show the empty volume generated due to the hydrogen bonds in ice. Each water molecule is bound by four hydrogen bonds to its neighbors. Some compounds release extra hydrogen ions (H+) into the solution. Other compounds remove hydrogen ions (H+) from the solution when they are combined with water. A compound that does not result in a net gain or loss of hydrogen ions (H+) when in aqueous solution is said to be neutral, it does not alter the acidity of the water. pH is a measurement of the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in a solution. You can think of pH as “parts Hydrogen ion,” but remember that the pH scale is “backwards.” The pH scale ranges from 0 to 14 with zero being the most acidic (highest concentration of H+) and fourteen being the most basic. A solution at pH 7 is neutral because at that pH the number of hydrogen ions (H+) equals the number of hydroxide ions (OH-), just as they are balanced in pure water. pH is a measurement of the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in a solution. You can think of pH as “parts Hydrogen ion,” but remember that the pH scale is “backwards.” The pH scale ranges from 0 to 14 with zero being the most acidic (highest concentration of H+) and fourteen being the most basic. A solution at pH 7 is neutral because at that pH the number of hydrogen ions (H+) equals the number of hydroxide ions (OH-), just as they are balanced in pure water. pH is a measurement of the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in a solution. You can think of pH as “parts Hydrogen ion,” but remember that the pH scale is “backwards.” The pH scale ranges from 0 to 14, with zero being the most acidic (highest concentration of H+) and 14 being the most basic. A solution at pH 7 is neutral because at that pH the number of hydrogen ions (H+) equals the number of hydroxide ions (OH-), just as they are balanced in pure water. Hydrogen ion concentration can vary over many orders of magnitude. The pH scale is the -log of the hydrogen ion concentration; the minus sign changes the negative numbers that would be obtained from log[H+] to positive ones: pH = -log[H+].  The log conversion reduces a tenfold change in hydrogen ion concentration to a one-unit change in pH. Hydrogen ion concentration can vary over many orders of magnitude. The pH scale is the -log of the hydrogen ion concentration: pH = -log[H+]. The log conversion reduces a 10 fold change in hydrogen ion concentration to a one unit change in pH. If an acid gives a hydrogen ion (H+) in solution and a base accepts a hydrogen ion by giving a hydroxide ion (OH-), you may be wondering what will happen when an acid and a base are combined. When the hydrogen ion (H+) is released from hydrochloric acid, and the hydroxide ion (OH-) is released from sodium hydroxide, the two ions combine to form water (HOH). Remember, in a neutral solution (like water) the number of hydrogen ions equals the number of hydroxide ions. Hydrogen ions are hydrogen atoms that have had their electrons removed. To simplify things we will represent the hydronium ion as a hydrogen ion (H3O+ = H+) in the following discussion. In other words, hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions can combine to form water, or water can break down into hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions. Some compounds, when added to water, cause an increase of hydrogen ions (H+) in the solution. Other compounds, when added to water, cause a decrease in hydrogen ions (H+) in the solution. A compound that does not result in a net gain or loss of hydrogen ions (H+) when in aqueous solution is said to be neutral; it does not alter the acidity of the water. It dissociates (breaks apart) to produce bicarbonate ions (HCO3-) and hydrogen ions (H+). If acid enters the blood (H+ concentration goes up), most of the excess hydrogen ions will bond with bicarbonate, restoring carbonic acid. But then carbonic acid will dissociate to replace the “missing” hydrogen ions. As acid or base is added, any buffered solution will eventually reach a limit called the “buffering capacity.” At this point, no additional hydrogen ions can be absorbed or produced, and the buffer stops working. This then dissociates to produce bicarbonate ions and hydrogen ions, and the pH of the ocean is lowered. However, when soil buffering capacity is exhausted (buffers cannot accept any more hydrogen ions), pH may decline very quickly. The concentration of hydrogen ions in solution can have important effects on biological systems. Some bonds are relatively weak and unstable. Carbon forms covalent bonds with many other elements; these strong bonds make organic molecules durable. Carbon forms covalent bonds with many other elements; these strong bonds make organic molecules durable. Charged functional groups are acids, meaning that they form ions by the release of hydrogen ions (H+), which are also called protons. Charged functional groups are acids, meaning that they form ions by the release of hydrogen ions (H+), which are also called protons. Charged functional groups are acids, meaning that they form ions by the release of hydrogen ions (H+), which are also called protons. On the left: Sugar-phosphate backbone is shown in yellow, specific bases pairing via hydrogen bonds (red lines) are colored in green and purple (A-T pair) and red and blue (C-G). The individual peptides or sub-units of estrogen and hemoglobin are held together by all of the non-covalent bonding types: hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding and hydrophobic interactions . These structures involve short range interactions that involve hydrogen bonding between peptide bonds and do not involve the interactions of amino acid side chains. The hydrogen bonds are parallel to the long axis of the helix and the side chains extend to the outside of the helical cylinder. The structures are stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the strands and the anti-parallel structure appears to be more stable due to maximization of the number of possible hydrogen bonds. In the case of a -sheet the hydrogen bonds are in the plane of the sheet and perpendicular to the peptide chain.  Iconic bonds Hydrogen bonds Hydrophobic/van der Walls interactions -helices and -sheets are stabilized by hydrogen bonding. The two strands are held together by base pairing: hydrogen bonding between specific bases. The two strands are held together by base pairing: hydrogen bonding between specific bases. The two strands are held together by base pairing: hydrogen bonding between specific bases. This is an example of bioselectivity: T pairs with A, and not with C. The molecular recognition occurs because of the ability of bases to form specific hydrogen bonds: atoms align just right to make hydrogen bonds possible. You should apply the definition of the hydrogen bond to form all possible hydrogen bonds in any pair of bases you choose. On the previous page you determined that the most stable complimentary base pairing takes place between A and T with two hydrogen bonds and between G and C with three hydrogen bonds in DNA. In each case these comlimentary base pairings included a purine hydrogen bonded to a pyrimidine. This means that the distance between the attachment sites for the sugar in all the base pairs are identical giving uniform dimensions to the distance between the two backbones along the length of two strands that are hydrogen bonded together. The two chains are held together by hydrogen bonding between bases. The stability of the DNA is directly proportional to the number of hydrogen bonds between chains. Hydrogen bonding between strands of DNA and RNA follow the pattern A hydrogen bonded through two bonds to T in DNA A hydrogen bonded through two bonds to U in RNA G hydrogen bonded through three bonds to C in both DNA and RNA As a general rule, hybridization will take place to maximize the number of hydrogen bonds that can be formed between two polynucleotide strands. However, another structural limitation is placed on the formation of the hydrogen bonds between two lengths of polynucleotide strands: the strands must be anti-parallel to each other. This short duplex structure is anti-parallel and has 15 hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. The stability of double stranded DNA is due to two factors, hydrogen bonds and base stacking. Hydrogen bonds provide an attractive force between the strands while base stacking (van der Waals) stabilizes the helical structure. The Jmol below shows the stacking of the bases and illustrates the hydrogen bonding pattern for a GC basepair. The stability of the DNA is to some extent determined by the number of hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. The increase in absorbance is referred to as the hyperchromic effect and is a measure of the breaking of the hydrogen bonds between the bases and the separation of the two strands. Unsaturated fatty acids have one, two, or even three double bonds along the carbon “backbone.” Notice in the diagram below that at each double bond, the carbons involved are bonded to only one instead of two hydrogen atoms. Thus these fatty acids have less hydrogen; they are “unsaturated” with respect to hydrogen. To make these products, a chemical process is used to add hydrogen to vegetable oil. Many of the double bonds in the fatty acids are replaced by single bonds (and hydrogen atoms), but some double bonds remain in the partially hydrogenated oils that result. The naturally occurring double bonds are converted to trans double bonds, making "trans fats." This contrasts with the equilibrium state, in which the concentration of hydrogen ions would be the same inside and outside of the lysosome. This contrasts with the equilibrium state, in which the concentration of hydrogen ions would be the same inside and outside of the lysosome. This contrasts with the equilibrium state, in which the concentration of hydrogen ions would be the same inside and outside the lysosome. This contrasts with the equilibrium state, in which the concentration of hydrogen ions would be the same inside and outside the lysosome. As you know, some bonds are relatively weak and unstable. It can be released when certain bonds are broken. The combination of a concentration difference of hydrogen ions and a voltage difference accross this membrane is often referred to as an electrochemical gradient. Electrons and hydrogen ions (H+) are produced as sugar is broken down and energy is harvested; oxygen (O2) combines with these byproducts to produce water (H2O). Electrons and hydrogen ions (H+) are produced as sugar is broken down and energy is harvested; oxygen (O2) combines with these byproducts to produce water (H2O). On the left: Sugar-phosphate backbone is shown in yellow, specific base pairings via hydrogen bonds (red lines) are colored in green and purple (A-T pair) and red and blue (C-G). Complementary bases form hydrogen bonds with each other within the double helix. 98°C is too hot for the hydrogen bonds between complementary bases to form. This allows the hydrogen bonds between the primer and the target DNA sequence to form. It is important to remember that this binding is specific: T pairs with A, but not with C. The molecular recognition occurs because of the ability of bases to form specific hydrogen bonds: atoms align just right to make hydrogen bonds possible. It is important to remember that this binding is specific: T pairs with A, but not with C. The molecular recognition occurs because of the ability of bases to form specific hydrogen bonds: atoms align just right to make hydrogen bonds possible. These will align and bind loosely to each other: hydrogen bonds will form between complementary bases. At this point, the two fragments are not firmly held together by covalent bonds; the sugar-phosphate backbone is still broken on both strands. This is more difficult however because there are no hydrogen bonds to hold the DNA fragments together. There are three major types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: i) covalent, ii) ionic, and iii) hydrogen bonds. The separation of charge within a molecule (required for hydrogen bonding between molecules) usually occurs where an electronegative element (usually O or N) is bonded to a hydrogen atom. Hydrogen bond (H-bond) is an interaction between a partially positive hydrogen atom and a partially negative atom with unshared (lone) pair of electrons. In order for hydrogen to have sufficient partial positive charge, hydrogen must be covalently attached to a very electronegative atom (O, N, P). Hydrophilic molecules contain polar functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds with water. Ionic bonds are interactions between oppositely charged ions. Hydrogen, with one proton, is the most common element in the universe. Hydrogen bond (H-bond) is an interaction between a partially positive hydrogen atom and a partially negative atom with unshared (lone) pair of electrons. In order for hydrogen to have sufficient partial positive charge, hydrogen must be covalently attached to a very electronegative atom (O, N, P). Hydrogen ions (denoted H+) are hydrogen atoms that have had their electrons removed. Conjugated double bonds refer to the alternating arrangement of bonds in a molecule: double-single-double bond. Hydrophilic molecules contain polar functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds with water. Substances that are neutral, like pure water, have equal concentrations of hydrogen (H+) and hydroxide (OH-) ions. A measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in a solution. A one-point change in pH is equal to a ten-fold difference in the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+). The bases on one single stranded segment can "stick" to another single stranded end by forming complementary hydrogen bonds between the bases on each strand. Bases are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) acceptors. These fatty acids have less hydrogen; and thus, are “unsaturated” with hydrogen. Acids are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) donors. There are three major types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: i) covalent, ii) ionic, and iii) hydrogen bonds. Ionic bonds occur when two oppositely charged ions stick together. Cells often maintain concentration gradients of hydrogen ions across their membranes. However, only hydrogens covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Hydrophilic molecules contain polar functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds with water. Ionic bonds are interactions between oppositely charged ions. However, only hydrogens covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Conjugated double bonds refer to the alternating arrangement of bonds in a molecule: double-single-double bond.

11. [u'atoms', u'atomic', u'carbon atom']
  After examing atoms and their properties, students will be able to:  Another property of the atoms is electronegativity. As you can see in the table, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur are electronegative atoms and represent the major electronegative atoms in biological molecules. Oxygen is not the only electronegative element that forms polar bonds, as long as the electronegativities of the two atoms differ, the bond will have some degree of polar character.  As you can see in the periodic table these atoms are found on the extreme right or the extreme left of the periodic table. These charged atoms are called ions and form the basis for charge repulsion and attraction in the non-covalent ionic bond. Atoms are made up of subatomic particles: protons, neutrons, and electrons. Two atoms that differ by the number of neutrons are called isotopes of the same element (e.g. By summing the atomic mass of all the atoms in a molecule, one can estimate the molecular mass of the molecule, which is then expressed in atomic mass units or Daltons. The masses of the six atoms of the elements listed above are given in the following Atomic Properties TABLE. One characteristic of the atoms of the major elements is that they are able to form molecules through formation of covalent bonds with other atoms. Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.)  Molecules are made up of atoms covalently bound to each other. For example, a molecule of methane is a carbon atom covalently bonded to four hydrogen atoms; and water is composed of an oxygen atom covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms. Molecules can also be complex containing many atoms covalently bonded to each other, for example, cholesterol. Note that cholesterol also contains bonds that involve the sharing of more than one valence electron between two atoms creating a double bond indicated by C=C. The solid wedges indicate the atoms are above the plane of the page and the dashed wedges indicate that the atoms are below the page. We saw with water that the orientation of atoms around the oxygen was tetrahydral with the angle between the two hydrogen atoms close what would be expected for a tetrahydral shape. In the case of methane the four hydrogen atoms are at the corners of a tetrahydron. Ionic bonds form between oppositely charged atoms. The atoms are attracted to each other due to their opposite charges. Remember that hydrogen bonding occurs between partially negatively charged electronegative atoms, and partially positively charged hydrogen atoms that are attached to electronegative atoms such as oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur. The nature of polar molecules is that they contain electronegative atoms, consequently they are capable of hydrogen bonding with aqueous or polar solvents. If one of the surfaces has a permanent dipole, due to the presence of electronegative or electropositive atoms, then the attraction is stronger. Single bonds: Two atoms attached by a single covalent bond have free rotation about the bond. Aromatic Compounds: Involve the sharing of electrons between atoms that form a ring.  Covalent bonds involving electronegative atoms often result in polar molecules. The double bond between carbon and oxygen atoms in a carbonyl group is polar, for the same reason that the oxygen attracts the electrons to itself. The overall shape of molecules depends on the geometry of the bonds that are formed between atoms. We saw with water that the orientation of atoms around the oxygen was tetrahydral with the angle between the two hydrogen atoms close what would be expected for a tetrahydral shape. In the case of methane the four hydrogen atoms are at the corners of a tetrahydron. Ionic bonds form between oppositely charged atoms. The atoms are attracted to each other due to their opposite charges. Remember that hydrogen bonding occurs between partially negatively charged electronegative atoms, and partially positively charged hydrogen atoms that are attached to electronegative atoms such as oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur. The nature of polar molecules is that they contain electronegative atoms, consequently they are capable of hydrogen bonding with aqueous or polar solvents. If one of the surfaces has a permanent dipole, due to the presence of electronegative or electropositive atoms, then the attraction is stronger. Single bonds: Two atoms attached by a single covalent bond have free rotation about the bond. Aromatic Compounds: Involve the sharing of electrons between atoms that form a ring.  Covalent bonds involving electronegative atoms often result in polar molecules. The double bond between carbon and oxygen atoms in a carbonyl group is polar, for the same reason that the oxygen attracts the electrons to itself. The overall shape of molecules depends on the geometry of the bonds that are formed between atoms. You will recall that molecules are a collection of atoms connected by covalent bonds. In general, single covalent bonds can be represented as having approximately 100 Kcal/mole of energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. You will recall that molecules are a collection of atoms connected by covalent bonds. In general, single covalent bonds can be represented as having approximately 100 Kcal/mole of energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. Notice that while atoms are moving from place to place on the structure, there is no net gain or loss of atoms in the closing of the ring to form what is referred to as a hemiacetal. The simplest of the carbohydrates fall into two categories or structures that differ only in the arrangement of the atoms as seen below. Thus the mainchain atoms have become polar functional groups. Since each residue in a protein has exactly the same mainchain atoms, the functional properties of a protein must arise from the different sidechain groups. Thus the mainchain atoms have become polar functional groups. Since each residue in a protein has exactly the same mainchain atoms, the functional properties of a protein must arise from the different sidechain groups. The atoms participating in hydrogen bonding in a -sheet are the same as those for -helices: the carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. This class of enzymes rearrange functional groups on their substrates, releasing a product that has the same number of atoms as the substrate, but is an isomer of the original substrate. As the name suggests, enzymes of this group transfer hydrogen atoms from the substrate to an electron acceptor, such as NAD+ or FAD . Therefore they are redox enzymes since removal of hydrogen atoms is the equivalent to removal of electrons. It is not possible for mammals to use carbon atoms derived from the TCA cycle to synthesize glucose. When atoms and molecules are organized in a particular way, a living (biotic) cell is generated that is capable of growth and reproduction.  A large and complex molecule formed from combining smaller subunits, and consisting of many atoms.  Two or more atoms held together by a chemical bond.  Attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. Strongly electronegative atoms bonded to weakly electronegative hydrogen atoms, in a molecule, result in hydrogen bonding.  Two atoms with the same atomic number (because they are the same element and have the same number of protons), but different atomic mass (because they have different numbers of neutrons). Matter is made of atoms. Both nutrients and wastes are made of atoms; they occupy space and have mass. The atoms retain their identity through the processes of life, even though they can be combined with other atoms in different ways. When a wolf is eaten by a bear, the atoms that made up the wolf become part of the bear. Atoms will change partners and the molecules will become much simpler. Those same atoms will be used over and over again. Nutrients and wastes are made of atoms; they occupy space and have mass. The atoms that make up matter are very durable and they flow in an endlessly repeated cycle between producers, consumers, and the nonliving environment. Chemistry is the study of atoms and how they interact. Chemistry is important for biology because all matter, including living organisms, is made up of atoms. Therefore, in order to understand biology we must understanding something of how atoms interact. As you have just learned chemistry is important for biology because everything is made up of atoms. As you have just learned chemistry is important for biology because everything is made up of atoms. Chemistry is the study of atoms and how they interact. Chemistry is important for biology because all matter, including living organisms, is made up of atoms. Therefore, in order to understand biology we must understanding something of how atoms interact. This journey takes them all the way down to atoms and molecules, and all the way up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. Atoms join together to form molecules. A molecule is a chemical structure consisting of at least two atoms held together by a chemical bond. The story begins with the smallest particles of matter: atoms. Atoms are the building blocks of all matter and they can be put together, like Legos, to form molecules. Atoms are tiny particles that are put together to build living organisms. The atom is the smallest organizational level that we will explore in this course, and you will learn more about atoms in Unit 2: Introduction to Chemistry. You will also learn how atoms can be linked together by chemical bonds to form molecules. Atoms and molecules are not alive. After exploring the world of atoms and molecules, you will learn how these building blocks are put together to construct the fundamental unit of life: the cell. The study of biology involves all these levels, from single atoms or molecules up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. Chemistry is the study of atoms and how they interact. Chemistry is important for biology because all matter, including living organisms, is made up of atoms. Therefore, in order to understand biology we must understanding something of how atoms interact. As you have just learned chemistry is important for biology because everything is made up of atoms. In the “Introduction to Chemistry” unit, we introduce the idea that atoms can combine to form molecules. After exploring the world of atoms and molecules, we will put those building blocks together to construct the fundamental unit of life: the cell. The atom is the fundamental unit of matter and in this unit you will learn about the atom and how atoms combine to form molecules. In the “Introduction to Chemistry” unit, we introduce the idea that atoms can combine to form molecules. After exploring the world of atoms and molecules, we will put those building blocks together to construct the fundamental unit of life: the cell. The atom is the fundamental unit of matter and in this unit you will learn about the atom and how atoms combine to form molecules. Atoms join together to form molecules. A molecule is a chemical structure consisting of at least two atoms held together by a chemical bond. The study of biology involves all these levels, from single atoms or molecules up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. Atoms join together to form molecules. A molecule is a chemical structure consisting of at least two atoms held together by a chemical bond. This journey takes them all the way down to atoms and molecules, and all the way up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. Chemistry is a scientific field that deals with understanding atoms and molecules. Chemistry is a scientific field that deals with understanding atoms and molecules. Individual atoms take countless trips through biogeochemical cycles, passing through living things, air, water, and/or rocks and soil. Earth has a finite stock of each of these chemical elements, but the atoms are immortal. In any transfer or reaction the total number of atoms of each element will stay the same. Earth’s immortal atoms move through living things as we feed, breathe, and excrete solid and liquid wastes. The same atoms are also found in abiotic reservoirs, stored up within rocks, soil, water, and air. Feeding relationships are a good place to start; they describe how atoms and calories move through the living community. Focusing on just one element, the nitrogen atoms that were in the leaf are now released to the soil as ammonium (NH4+). Everything around you is made of atoms. These particles are important in determining the properties of the atom as well as the interactions between two or more atoms. When atoms interact, they may share electrons. This allows the atoms to connect, or form covalent chemical bonds. It is the ability of the atom to form chemical bonds with other atoms that enables the incredible diversity in forms of matter that you see around you. Everything around you is made of atoms. These particles are important in determining the properties of the atom as well as the interactions between two or more atoms. When atoms interact, they may share electrons. This allows the atoms to connect, or form covalent chemical bonds. It is the ability of the atom to form chemical bonds with other atoms that enables the incredible diversity in forms of matter that you see around you. Everything around you is made of atoms. These particles are important in determining the properties of the atom as well as the interactions between two or more atoms. When atoms interact, they may share electrons. This allows the atoms to connect, or form covalent chemical bonds. It is the ability of the atom to form chemical bonds with other atoms that enables the incredible diversity in forms of matter that you see around you. Organic marcromolecules that are largely nonpolar (electrons are evenly distributed amongst atoms in a molecule) and as a result are hydrophobic (“water-fearing”).  Attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. Strongly electronegative atoms bonded to weakly electronegative hydrogen atoms, in a molecule, result in hydrogen bonding.  Two atoms with the same atomic number (because they are the same element and have the same number of protons), but different atomic mass (because they have different numbers of neutrons). The substance, consisting of atoms and subatomic particles, composing all physical objects. A simple sugar (carbohydrate) containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms in a 1:2:1 ratio respectively. Organisms are made from the same set of building blocks, atoms, which combine to form molecules. Atoms, molecules, macromolecules and organelles form cells, the smallest unit of life. Everyday objects are mostly mixtures of molecules, which in turn are made up of atoms. The atom is a good focal point for understanding matter; all matter is composed of atoms. Atoms are the smallest unit of an element that retains all of the properties of that element. Atoms are unimaginably small. In fact, atoms themselves are made of smaller subatomic particles. We cannot look at the parts of atoms with a microscope; they are simply too small. However, physicists have learned a great deal about atoms and subatomic particles through more indirect methods. Living things are made up of atoms arranged in a complex and nonrandom way. Understanding the properties of atoms allows us to predict and understand how atoms interact with one another to build molecules, such as hormones and DNA. In addition, an understanding of atoms allows us to predict how cells will react to different therapeutic drugs and toxins in the environment. Living things are made up of atoms arranged in a complex and nonrandom way. Understanding the properties of atoms allows us to predict and understand how atoms interact with one another to build molecules, such as hormones and DNA. In addition, an understanding of atoms allows us to predict how cells will react to different therapeutic drugs and toxins in the environment. Everyday objects are mostly mixtures of molecules, which in turn are made up of atoms. The atom is a good focal point for understanding matter; all matter is composed of atoms. Atoms are unimaginably small. The atoms themselves are made of even smaller subatomic particles called protons, neutrons, and electrons. We cannot look at the parts of atoms with a microscope; they are simply too small. However, physicists have learned a great deal about atoms and subatomic particles through indirect methods. Atoms with unlike charges (+/-) will attract each other and connect, binding to form a molecule. Atoms with like charges repel each other. That means two atoms both positively charged (+/+) or both negatively charged (-/-) will resist or reject contact. The changes in the atomic composition of a substance that occur as a result of the attraction or repulsion of two or more atoms is called a chemical reaction. Elements (atoms) are characterized by their atomic structure, which is made up of subatomic particles: protons, neutrons, and electrons. By summing the atomic mass of all the atoms in a molecule, one can estimate the molecular mass of the molecule, which is expressed in atomic mass units (called Daltons). Atoms of different elements differ in their size, the reactions they participate in, and many other features. The atomic number is constant and identical for all atoms of an element. Atoms of different elements have many different features, including different sizes and levels of reactivity. The atomic number is constant and identical for all atoms of an element. For example, hydrogen (H) atoms always have only one proton and have an atomic number of one. Typically, the atomic mass is multiplied by the number of atoms in a mole to give the atomic weight in grams. Atoms cannot have fractions of protons or neutrons. The reason for this is that not all atoms of an element have the same number of neutrons. For example, carbon atoms always have six protons. But some carbon atoms have six neutrons, while others have seven or even eight neutrons. Two atoms with the same atomic number but a different atomic mass are called isotopes. For example, most atoms of carbon have an atomic mass of 12. Atoms can’t have fractions of protons or neutrons. The reason for this is that not all atoms of an element have the same number of neutrons. For example, carbon atoms always have 6 protons. But some carbon atoms have 6 neutrons, while others have 7 or even 8 neutrons. Two atoms with the same atomic number but different atomic mass are called isotopes. For example, most atoms of carbon have atomic mass of 12. There are atoms of carbon with atomic mass of 13 and 14. The number and location of electrons determines the interactions between atoms. A key characteristic of atoms is that they are most stable when they have full outer electron shells. All atoms, in their elemental state, have equal numbers of protons and electrons, and for this reason they have no net charge. Some atoms achieve this endpoint by taking on extra electrons, or giving them up. In the next section, we will explore how these electron transfers occur, and will look at some of the other ways that atoms interact to achieve stable, full outer electron shells. Atoms are the building blocks for all matter. Now that you understand the structure of the atom, you can use atoms to build more complex structures, like molecules. When you are ready, check your understanding of atoms by taking the quiz linked below. Atoms are the smallest units of an element that retain all the properties of the element. Atoms combine to form a larger and more complex entity called a molecule. Molecules are composed of two or more atoms held together by covalent bonds. Chemical bonds are attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. Joining atoms together builds molecules that are more complex and larger than the individual atoms that compose them. It is not easy to explain why this is true, but it is a rule of thumb that predicts how atoms will react with each other. Recall from the discussion on electrons, in the Atoms module, that the first electron shell is full with two electrons, and the second and third shells are full with eight electrons. Atoms tend to bond to other atoms in such a way that both atoms have filled outer shells as a result of the interaction. Atoms form ions when they either take up or release electrons in order to fill their outer shell. Instead of transferring their electrons completely, atoms may remain in very close contact and share electrons so that their outer shells are filled. In essence, a shared electron is counted “twice” and participates in a larger shell that joins two atoms. Atoms can share 2 pairs of electrons (in a double bond), or even 3 pairs of electron (in a triple bond). Instead of transferring their electrons completely, atoms may remain in very close contact and share electrons so that their outer shells are filled. In essence, a shared electron is counted “twice” and participates in a larger shell that joins the two atoms. Atoms can share two pairs of electrons (in a double bond), or even three pairs of electrons (in a triple bond). Carbon can share an electron with four other atoms. Nitrogen can share an electron with three other atoms. A nitrogen atom can form a covalent bond with three hydrogen atoms to form a molecule called ammonia, NH3 . When two atoms are joined by a covalent bond, the new structure that forms is called a molecule. This is in contrast to the structure formed when two atoms are joined by an ionic bond, which is called an ionic compound. When drawing a molecule on paper, covalent bonds are often drawn as lines between atoms. You may have another question about the skeletal diagrams: what happened to the hydrogen atoms attached to the carbon atoms? To clean up the diagram, the H atoms are not drawn. Remember that the lines represent covalent bonds between atoms, but also note that the bonds between O and H are not shown. Each carbon has formed a covalent bond with four other atoms. When two atoms are joined by a covalent bond, the new structure that forms is called a molecule. This is in contrast to the structure formed when two atoms are joined by an ionic bond, which is called an ionic compound. When drawing a molecule on paper, covalent bonds are often drawn as lines between atoms. You may have another question about the skeletal diagrams: what happened to the hydrogen atoms attached to the carbon atoms? To clean up the diagram, the H atoms are not drawn. Remember that the lines represent covalent bonds between atoms, but also note that the bonds between O and H are not shown. Each carbon has formed a covalent bond with four other atoms. Carbon can share an electron with four other atoms. Carbon can form a covalent bond with four hydrogen atoms to form a molecule called methane, CH4 . They do not join atoms into molecules. One water molecule consists of two hydrogen atoms covalently bonded to a oxygen atom. Recall that in a covalent bond, the electrons are shared between two atoms. However, the two atoms don’t necessarily share the electrons equally. Some atoms are more likely to draw the shared electrons closer to themselves. These atoms have a high electronegativity. Whenever two atoms with different electronegativities form a covalent bond, we say that the bond between the atoms is polar, with each atom carrying a partial charge. In water, the partially positive hydrogen atoms are attracted to the partially negative oxygen atoms of neighboring water molecules. The water molecule consists of two hydrogen atoms covalently bonded to a oxygen atom. These hydrogen atoms carry a positive partial charge and can be attracted to negative partial charges on other molecules, or on different parts of the same molecule. Recall that in a covalent bond, the electrons are shared between two atoms. However, the two atoms don’t necessarily share the electrons equally. Some atoms are more likely to draw the shared electrons closer to themselves. Atoms have a high electronegativity if they tend to draw the electrons towards them. The degree of unequal electron sharing depends on the difference in electronegativity of the atoms involved in the bond. In contrast, a carbon-oxygen bond involves two atoms that have different electronegativities. The size of the partial charges is proportional to the difference between the electronegativities of the two bonded atoms. Bonds in which electrons are unequally shared between the atoms are called polar covalent bonds. As you’ve seen, there are many ways that atoms interact with each other and form chemical bonds. You’ve already seen that all atoms have a few structural characteristics in common. All atoms have a nucleus, made up of protons and neutrons, and are surrounded by electrons. However, you are probably also aware that not all atoms are the same. In fact, atoms come in different types, called elements. Each element has its own set of properties that are unique to atoms of its kind.  Atoms differ from one another in their number of protons, electrons, neutrons, and chemical properties which affect the ability of atoms to combine to form substances. All hydrogen atoms contain one proton and one electron. In contrast, all carbon atoms contain six protons, six electrons, and six neutrons. Organisms are made from a common set of building blocks, atoms, which combine to form molecules. Atoms, molecules, macromolecules and organelles form cells, the smallest unit of life. Cells are the first level of organization that display the properties of life; but, their component parts (atoms and molecules) are not alive, as illustrated in the inverted pyramid below. We will then discuss the way atoms combine to form molecules through chemical bonds. Cells are the first level of organization that display the properties of life; but, their component parts (atoms and molecules) are not alive, as illustrated in the inverted pyramid below. To make sense of how cells work, we must constantly return to their parts (atoms and molecules) and the interactions among them. You will learn, later in this unit, that atoms are the fundamental unit of matter, and that 92 different types of atoms (called elements) occur naturally on earth. We will proceed by examining the way atoms combine to form molecules through chemical bonds. The chair you are sitting in is made of atoms. The food you ate for lunch was built from atoms. Even the air you breathe is made of atoms. In this unit, we will learn more about atoms, the fundamental unit of matter. While cells are the first level of organization that displays all the properties of life, their component parts (atoms and molecules) are not alive, as illustrated in the inverted pyramid below. To make sense of how cells work, you must constantly return to their parts (atoms and molecules) and the interactions among them. You will learn how atoms combine to form different molecules, making up all the diverse matter you see around you. You might be wondering why triglycerides are not amphipathic, given that they are similar to fatty acids, with a polar group of atoms and a nonpolar group. The additional atoms that are found only on glucose are electronegative, meaning that they will withdraw some of the electrons from the atoms that form bonds with them. Hydrophobic molecules lack the electronegative atoms that are required to generate a polar bond. You might be wondering why triglycerides are not amphipathic, given that they are similar to fatty acids, with a polar group of atoms and a nonpolar group. The additional atoms that are found only on glucose are electronegative, meaning that they will withdraw some of the electrons from the atoms that form bonds with them. Hydrophobic molecules lack the electronegative atoms that are required to generate a polar bond. The hydrophobic part has no polar atoms to form favorable interactions with the water. The hydrophobic part has no polar atoms to form favorable interactions with the water. The hydrophobic part has no polar atoms to form favorable interactions with the water. In the previous modules in the Biological Chemistry unit, we have been learning about how atoms and molecules interact. Notice that the same four atoms (H, Cl, Na, and OH) are found on each side of the equation. Carbohydrates are organic molecules that consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms in a 1:2:1 ratio. DNA contains a modified ribose where one of the oxygen atoms has been removed, hence the name deoxyribonucleic acid. The energy stored in covalent bonds between atoms (within a glucose molecule, in this case) is released during cellular respiration, when glucose is broken down and converted to simpler, more stable molecules. All organic molecules contain carbon atoms that form covalent bonds with hydrogen atoms. Covalent bonds contain energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. 1) All organic molecules contain carbon atoms bonded to hydrogen (C-H bonds), oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. 2) Atoms within organic molecules are connected by covalent bonds. Larger organic molecules consist of a carbon/oxygen/nitrogen skeleton (backbone) with other atoms branching off from this structure . All organic molecules contain carbon atoms covalently bonded to hydrogen (C-H bonds).  All organic molecules contain carbon atoms bonded to hydrogen (C-H bonds). Atoms within organic molecules are connected by covalent bonds. Larger organic molecules consist of a carbon/oxygen/nitrogen/phosphorus skeleton (backbone) with other atoms branching off from this structure. In organic molecules, monomers can be linked together by bonds between different atoms, different monomers can be used, and they can be strung together in many different arrangements. In organic molecules, monomers can be linked together by bonds between different atoms, different monomers can be used, and they can be strung together in many different arrangements. The solid wedges indicate that the atoms are above the plane of the page and the dashed wedges indicate that the atoms are below the page. They only contain carbon and hydrogen, and lack electronegative atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Polar functional groups contain electronegative atoms like nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), and sulfur (S). The presence of electronegative atoms in a functional group results in an unequal distribution of charges on the atoms, causing the bonds to become polar. In addition to interacting favorably with water, the polar atoms can also participate in chemical reactions and polar functional groups are usually responsible for the catalytic properties of enzymes. They only contain carbon and hydrogen, and lack electronegative atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Polar functional groups contain electronegative atoms like nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), and sulfur (S). The presence of electronegative atoms in a functional group results in an unequal distribution of electrical charges on the atoms, causing the bonds to become polar. In addition to interacting favorably with water, the polar atoms can also participate in chemical reactions and polar functional groups are usually responsible for the catalytic properties of enzymes. They only contain carbon and hydrogen, and lack electronegative atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Polar functional groups contain electronegative atoms like nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), and sulfur (S). The presence of electronegative atoms in a functional group results in an unequal distribution of charges on the atoms, causing the bonds to become polar. In addition to interacting favorably with water, the polar atoms can also participate in chemical reactions and polar functional groups are usually responsible for the catalytic properties of enzymes. In the previous unit, “Introduction to Chemistry,” you learned that atoms can combine to form molecules. Like all organic molecules, biological macromolecules contain hydrogen atoms that form covalent bonds with carbon atoms. In the Introduction to Chemistry unit, you learned that atoms are the building blocks of all matter. You also learned that atoms can be linked together with chemical bonds, to form molecules that have their own unique properties. Biological macromolecules are special molecules that contain carbon atoms covalently bonded with hydrogen atoms. Notice that while atoms are moving from place to place on the structure, there is no net gain or loss of atoms in the closing of the ring to form what is referred to as a hemiacetal. The simplest of the carbohydrates fall into two categories or structures that differ only in the arrangement of the atoms as seen below. You will recall that molecules are a collection of atoms connected by covalent bonds. In general, single covalent bonds can be represented as having approximately 100 Kcal/mole of energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. The atoms participating in hydrogen bonding in a -sheet are the same as those for -helices: the carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. To answer this question, you first need to know that in chemistry, atoms or molecules are often counted. In the "Introduction to Chemistry" unit, you learned about general chemical principles of the building blocks (atoms and molecules) for living and non-living entities. In the "Biological Macromolecules" unit, you explored matter and learned how atoms can be combined to form molecules that, through their own unique structures, are able to carry out specific functions. You have already learned that cells are made up of organelles, molecules, atoms, and subatomic particles. You have already learned that cells are made up of organelles, molecules, atoms, and subatomic particles. Covalent bonds hold these molecules together, and the chemical bonds contain energy associated with the force that holds two atoms together. The remaining carbon atoms in the glucose are converted to ethanol. When sufficient oxygen becomes available, the carbon atoms in lactate are converted to CO2. The remaining carbon atoms in glucose are converted to ethanol. When sufficient oxygen becomes available, the carbon atoms in lactate are converted to CO2. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. A sugar molecule stores chemical energy in the bonds that join its atoms. A sugar molecule stores chemical energy in the bonds that join its atoms. Heat is the energy possessed by any substance because of the random jiggling of its molecules and atoms.  Attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. Strongly electronegative atoms bonded to weakly electronegative hydrogen atoms, in a molecule, result in hydrogen bonding.  Two atoms with the same atomic number (because they are the same element and have the same number of protons), but different atomic mass (because they have different numbers of neutrons). A large and complex molecule formed from combining smaller subunits, and consisting of many atoms. Two or more atoms held together by a chemical bond. Hydrophobic molecules have no (or very few) highly electronegative atoms. Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.) Atoms like oxygen have a high electronegativity. Strongly electronegative atoms bonded to weakly electronegative hydrogen atoms, in a molecule, result in hydrogen bonding. Matter consisting entirely of atoms with the same number of protons. Smaller groups of atoms within a larger molecule that have a particular characteristic or function. Aromatic rings can include atoms other than carbon.  Two atoms with the same atomic number (because they are the same element and have the same number of protons), but different atomic mass (because they have different numbers of neutrons). Organic marcromolecules that are largely nonpolar (electrons are evenly distributed amongst atoms in a molecule) and as a result are hydrophobic (“water-fearing”). A large and complex molecule formed by combining smaller subunits producing a larger unit consisting of many atoms with new properties. Biological macromolecules are special large macromolecules produced by living organisms that contain carbon atoms covalently bonded to hydrogen atoms. The substance, consisting of atoms and subatomic particles, composing all physical objects. Two or more atoms held together by a chemical bond.  Methane is a small molecule composed of 5 atoms. Other molecules, such as polysaccharides or proteins, may be humongous containing thousands of atoms bonded together. Molecular formula tells us what atoms and how many of them make up the molecule, but does not tell us anything about arrangement of the atoms (see related term molecular/chemical structure). A simple sugar (carbohydrate) containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms in a 1:2:1 ratio respectively. Larger organic molecules (macromolecules) consist of a carbon/oxygen/nitrogen skeleton (backbone) with other atoms branching off from this structure.  Attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. Covalent bonds occur when two atoms share electrons. Representations of a molecule showing arrangement of atoms and chemical bonds. Simple structures represent atoms by one leter symbols and covalent bonds by lines. Three-dimensional structures represent arrangment of atoms and bonds in three-dimensional space. Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.) Ionic bonds form between oppositely charged atoms. The atoms are attracted to each other due to their opposite charges. Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.) Aromatic rings can include atoms other than carbon. Atomic Masses of the major biological atoms AtomMassCovalent Bonds H11 C124 N143 O162 P315 S322

12. [u'populations', u'gene', u'genes']
  However, in eukaryotes there is generally one gene that codes for one product under the control of a single promoter. This unit of a promoter, a terminator and the intervening gene or genes is called an Operon. This allows a single gene with multiple exons to represent many different proteins. Although pyruvate dehydrogenase is well regulated, it is clear by observation of the human population that the flow of carbon from pyruvate to acetyl-CoA to fatty acids still occurs. Although pyruvate dehydrogenase is well regulated, it is clear by observation of the human population that the flow of carbon from pyruvate to acetyl-CoA to fatty acids still occurs. Process in which characteristics of a population change predictably over many generations. It happens at levels greater than the individual: a single bird cannot evolve, but a population of birds can evolve. As generations of time pass, inherited features that help organisms produce offspring become more common within a population. As generations of time pass, inherited features that help organisms produce offspring become more common within a population. All those pine trees represent the population of pine trees in this area. A population consists of all the individuals of the same kind living within a specific area. All those pine trees represent the population of pine trees in this forest. All those pine trees represent the population of pine trees in that forest. These interactions can be studied at the population, community, and ecosystem levels. We began with a study of population ecology. Population size and density increase with birth or immigration and decrease with death and emigration. Exponential growth occurs if the per capita rate of increase remains constant; the bigger the population gets, the faster it grows. If these factors intensify as a population becomes crowded, the result is logistic population growth that levels off at a population’s carrying capacity. Population size, affluence, and use of high-impact technologies all contribute to our impacts. Innovative green technologies, restraints on consumption, and measures to control population growth all may help to limit our impacts on the environment. The main levels of analysis in ecology are population, community, ecosystem, and biosphere. New members can arise by birth through reproduction of existing population members. New population members may also immigrate (move into the population) from other areas outside the boundaries set by the researcher. A population declines through the death of its existing members. The population may also decrease if members emigrate (move away to areas outside the boundaries enclosing the population). To simplify calculations ecologists often assume that a population is closed - that emigration and immigration do not occur. Now you have some mathematical tools for describing a population’s status in terms of its size, density, and birth and death rates. As we will see in the next page, the rates of birth and death can be very helpful in projecting how a population will change over time. Below are some statistics for New York City’s human population(1) in 2009. In 2010, New York City had a population of over 8 million people compared to New Orleans’ population of about 350,000. The simplest way to do this is by using per capita (literally “per head”) rates where population size is included in the denominator of a rate calculation. If N = population size at the beginning of a time period, the per capita rate of some event is calculated as shown below for birth and death rates: Biologists can monitor births and deaths in a population and estimate their rates of birth and death. total starting population N = 170 deer Population ecology is focused on how populations — of plants, animals, bacteria, and other types of organisms — change over time. Population size, often represented by the variable N, is the total number of individuals in a population at a particular point in time. Population size can be an abstract concept, particularly for small organisms whose numbers can be astronomical. In many cases this number can be pictured and measured more easily than population size itself. It also can be used to compare populations that occupy areas of different size, allowing you to judge where a population is more or less crowded. Valley Forge National Historical Park (NHP) in southeastern Pennsylvania is home to a large population of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). As summarized in the table below, the deer population in the park has been changing over time. As illustrated by the case of Valley Forge’s deer population, population size and density are dynamic, or changeable, numbers. Now that we know a bit about how to describe a population, how can we figure out how its numbers will change over time? Let’s consider the relatively simple case of a closed population, where there is no immigration or emigration. We can predict how a population’s size will change over time simply by taking the difference between the rates of birth and death: This model assumes that the growth rate will remain constant and predicts how the population will change if this condition is met. The population will grow faster and faster the larger it gets, producing a characteristic J-shaped curve on a graph of population size over time. A population will grow if its rate of birth is greater than its rate of death. The population will remain constant if the two rates are equal—that is, if births are balanced by deaths. Think of a population as a parade of generations, with each new crop of offspring replacing the previous generation. As long as conditions permit good survival and successful reproduction, any population’s size will inevitably increase. For any population, the actual quantity of increase (number added to the population) will depend on how many you already have in the group. That is, the per captita rate of increase multiplied by the starting population size (N). Below are a table and a graph that continue the process of growth for the Valley Forge NHP deer population, using our estimated annual per capita growth rate of 0.39 deer added per deer per year. The population is projected to grow at a constant annual rate of increase (0.39 deer added per deer per year, or 39% annual growth). For example, the starting population for 1986 (236) = the base population from 1985 (170) plus the growth from 1985 (66). Although the per capita rate of growth remains constant, the number added each year increases with the base population. What actually happened to the deer population at Valley Forge NHP from 1985 onward? Estimated changes in deer population at Valley Forge NHP. First, the population did not increase to over 4500 by 1995 as predicted by the simple exponential growth model. Sometimes limiting factors act in an unpredictable way to reduce population sizes. Hard freezes, fires, droughts, and floods are all examples of factors that could act to quickly reduce a population. Their populations often show an erratic boom-and-bust pattern: population sizes shoot up when times are good and crash when conditions are bad. When a population is at its carrying capacity, it does not tend to increase or decrease but tends to stay essentially the same over many generations. At least in principle, we can predict what will happen to a self-limiting population over time: it should grow until it reaches its carrying capacity and then remain stable. It is simple to describe logistic growth with a math equation that allows a population to grow when it is small but causes it to level off when it reaches a predetermined value (the carrying capacity). A logistic model for the Valley Forge NHP is shown below, superimposed on the actual population data from the park. Initial growth is relatively slow because the population is small and has few individuals to give birth. At moderate population sizes the population grows fastest: there are many parents but the effects of crowding are not yet severe. As the population approaches its carrying capacity, the effects of crowding start to reduce its growth. How can a population be “managed”? Most agreed that something should be done, but how should the deer population be controlled? Some citizens argued that birth control injections should be used to manage the population, but evidence indicated that this would be expensive and ineffective. As a result, the deer population fell from 1,277 in 2009 to 374 in the spring of 2012. Consider a population of fish that supports a commercial fishery. Here, the goal is to maximize the harvest rate while maintaining a healthy population size. How can principles of population ecology help in choosing the best rate of harvest? The general idea is that a population is like a bank account. Similarly, every so often we can remove a population’s growth without causing the population to decline: it will be reset to its beginning level and the harvested individuals will be replaced by further reproduction and growth. Ideally, we should be able to find the population size that provide the maximum level of growth (and harvest) each year. Population modeling can help with this effort. In the graph above, tangent lines are used to illustrate how quickly a population is growing at three different population sizes. As you have just seen, the logistic model indicates that a harvestable population should be maintained at a moderate size of about half its carrying capacity. Population models help officials manage fisheries for maximum benefits to commercial fishermen and recreational anglers. With fewer adults in the population, the population cannot rebound after a harvest that would normally be sustainable. Even just one bad year can set up a series of events in which the population dwindles over time. This reduces the amount of fish that can be harvested but it also reduces the risk that harvests will drive the population downward. Even if we can induce a bust—say, by spraying an insecticide—the population is likely to rebound with another boom unless we can reduce the birth rate. Effective pest management often requires that several strategies be used together with careful monitoring of the pest population. Population management can also raise ethical issues. The science of ecology starts at the population level. We can describe populations in terms of their number (population size, N) and their density (number per unit area or volume). If a population is closed (no immigration or emigration), it will change at a rate that is determined by the balance between births and deaths: the per capita rate of change = per capita birth rate - per capita death rate. As a result, the population grows faster the larger it gets. Any exponential growth model eventually predicts population sizes that are impossibly large. In reality, limiting factors put the brakes on population growth by reducing birth rates and/or increasing death rates. In this module, we looked at the deer population in Valley Forge National Historical Park as a case study in population ecology. When the Park was established and closed off to hunting, the population initially shot up in a pattern resembling exponential growth. It then leveled off when the deer population reached its carrying capacity in the absence of hunting, demonstrating logistic growth. To protect the Park’s plant diversity, managers used sharpshooters to increase deer mortality and limit the population size. This is just one of many examples in which people apply principles of population ecology to real-world problems. Management of fisheries or other harvestable resources may involve maintenance of an optimal population size (often about half the carrying capacity) that maximizes rates of growth and reproduction. An interspecific interaction is an effect of one population on another in a community. We can also see what happens to the larger community if a particular population is eradicated by human activity. But each population also interacts with a host of nonliving factors. We began this module by considering how three factors have changed over time: human population size, affluence or material consumption, and human use of high-impact technologies. Here we will conclude by looking at how population, affluence, and technology may change, and how these changes are likely to affect humanity’s impact on the global environment. At a fundamental level, efforts to slow population growth may mitigate climate change simply by reducing population growth, which is a key underlying factor driving all human impacts on the environment. Based on our graph showing how population has exploded during the Industrial Age, you may assume that it will continue to increase dramatically with no end in sight. Recall that world population began to grow rapidly in the 1800s. Fertility (which corresponds to the birth rate) is the main factor that determines modern and future rates of population growth. In less developed low- and middle-income nations, fertility rates are still high enough to generate rapid population growth. Overall, the global population will continue to increase for at least a few decades, and this increase will be driven mainly by growth in the low- and middle-income nations of Africa and Asia. If so, the world population is projected to peak at around 9 to 11 billion in 2050 and begin to decline thereafter. Will Earth be able to sustain these high levels of consumption spread across a population of 9 to 11 billion people? Ultimately the degree and nature of our impact will depend on how population size, affluence levels, and technologies change in the future. In the next page, we will examine the history of the global human population, tracing some of the factors that have enabled our dramatic expansion in numbers and in impact. Resources for conservation efforts are limited and high rates of human population growth continue to drive habitat destruction and overharvesting in many of these nations. And you already know that human population and impact have increased greatly through the Industrial Age, so it is natural to suspect that human activities are the cause of recent changes in atmospheric gases. To grasp our collective impact as human beings, we must begin with some analysis of our population’s size and technological reach. In the activity below, explore and learn more about how rates of birth, death, and population growth changed as a result. Thus far, we have seen how human technology and population size have changed over the past 200,000 years. Through the Agricultural Age and particularly during the Industrial Age we’ve seen steep increases in population size, affluence, and the use of high-impact technologies. Population size will continue to increase for several more decades, but it is already slowing overall and populations may peak somewhere in the range of 9 - 11 billion. Over the next 40 years, almost all of the growth in the world’s population will happen in lower-income nations in Asia and Africa where fertility rates are still relatively high and populations have lots of young people. Studies have shown that just one teaspoon of this poison, which is a protein, would be enough to kill 20 percent of the world's population! Some proteins bind to DNA and either reduce the expression of a gene, or activate the expression of a gene. Studies have shown that just one teaspoon of this poison, which is a protein, would be enough to kill 20 percent of the world’s population! The process of making the functional gene products is called gene expression. The animation below illustrates the process of gene expression in eukaryotes.. A defective tumor suppressor gene can no longer suppress tumors. A defective tumor suppressor gene can no longer suppress tumors. Each pair of homologues has the same set of genes, though they can have different alleles (or forms) of each gene. Each pair of homologues has the same set of genes, though they can have different alleles (or forms) of each gene. These chromosome pairs are called homologous because they have the same genes, but may have different versions of that gene. One chromosome in this homologue may contain a “blond” version of that gene and the other homologue may contain the “brown” version. Enzyme levels are usually altered by controlling the amount of mRNA produced from the gene that encodes the enzyme. Each of these is an inherited condition in which an altered gene produces an enzyme that does not function normally. States that the two alleles for each gene separate from each other when gametes form, so that each gamete contains one allele of each gene. One version of a gene.One version of a gene. A gene where two different alleles are both expressed in the heterozygous condition. A single trait involving multiple genes where the effect of one gene can mask the effect of a different gene. A gene where the dominant allele is not expressed as strongly in the heterozygote as in the homozygous dominant condition. Single gene with multiple effects. Notice that one of the chromosomes has the "A" version (or allele) of this gene and the other has the "a" allele of this gene. So if we know the phenotype, and we know that those two varieties would always result in same-color flowers, we can deduce that all individuals (plants) in that population (purple or white) have the same alleles for the gene that determines flower color. Mendel also coined the terms dominant and recessive to describe the expression of only one form of the gene when both are present in the same organism (that is, when an organism is heterozygous for the gene). Mendel also coined the terms dominant and recessive to describe the expression of only one form of the gene when both are present in the same organism (that is, when an organism is heterozygous for the gene). The crossing of two individuals heterozygous for a single gene is called a monohybrid cross. A gene is a region of a chromosome that has a specific function. The variations in the same gene are called alleles. Because diploid cells have two copies of each chromosome, they also have two copies of every gene. One set of chromosomes (and, therefore, one copy of each gene) is from the mother (or egg) and one set is from the father (or sperm). Diploid cells can have two of the same alleles of a gene, or they can have two different alleles of a gene. Cells with different alleles are called heterozygous (“hetero” meaning "different") because they will produce reproductive cells that have different alleles of this gene. The disorder is caused in the gene coding for lamin A, a protein involved in chromosome organization. Some human traits (like the tongue-rolling ability) follow Mendelian patterns, which means they are controlled by a single gene. If the gene responsible for the disorder is present on the autosomes, it is called an autosomal disorder. On the other hand, if the responsible gene is present on a sex chromosome, it is called a sex-linked disorder. Folk singer Woodie Guthrie suffered from Huntington's disease, which is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by a defective allele of the gene coding for a protein called huntingtin. Because it is located on the X chromosome, it is more specifically called an X-linked gene. In humans, the trait of color blindness results from a gene on the X chromosome. A gene on the X chromosome codes for a muscle protein that is missing in people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. So far, You've only learned about genes with two alleles — that is, two options for a gene coming from either parent — present in a chromosome pair. However, more than two alleles may be present in a population, resulting in what is referred to as a multiple-allele system. Human A, B, and O blood groups exist due to three possible alleles of the ABO gene, which codes for a protein that modifies carbohydrates present on red blood cells (Components of the Membrane). Think about what an allele is: a variation of a gene containing the recipe for a protein. Another gene, E/e, is in play. The B gene is involved in the synthesis of the pigment melanin: B results in a black, and b in a brown color. The E gene is related to melanin deposition in the fur: E causes melanin to be deposited, and e suppresses melanin deposits. This pleiotropic gene is called the “frizzle” gene because of its effect on the appearance of the chickens. Another gene known to have pleiotropic effects in humans is fibrillin-1, which codes for a connective tissue protein. Marfan syndrome is caused by mutations in the fibrillin-1 gene. Mutations in the serotonin transporter gene may cause a reduced ability to cope with stress. In the Mendelian pattern, it is possible to pinpoint a gene/allele coding for a specific protein to a particular trait. There are, however, more complex patterns to consider as well, such as epistasis, in which genes can influence each other’s expression, and polygenic inheritance, in which more than one gene is responsible for a particular trait. Transcription of information encoded in a gene into RNA and eventually a polypeptide chain. The process of codon optimization is the use of prefered codons when designing a gene to be expressed in a certain organism. The two key processes involved in gene expression, transcription and translation, involve distinct enzymes and in eukaryotic cells are physically separated by the nuclear membranes. The connection between genotype and phenotype of the organism was further discussed in the Gene Regulation module. This module began with discussion of gene structure, including the parts of the gene required for regulation of gene expression: coding DNA sequence, untranslated regions, promoter, operator, and terminator. However, differences in gene and genome structure between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells require scientists to engineer new DNA molecules that combine both, coding information from a human gene and regulatory information from yeast or bacterial genomes. The two key processes involved in gene expression, transcription and translation, involve distinct enzymes and in eukaryotic cells are physically separated by the nuclear membranes. The connection between genotype and phenotype of the organism was further discussed in the Gene Regulation module. This module began with discussion of gene structure, including the parts of the gene required for regulation of gene expression: coding DNA sequence, untranslated regions, promoter, operator, and terminator. However, differences in gene and genome structure between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells require scientists to engineer new DNA molecules that combine both, coding information from a human gene and regulatory information from yeast or bacterial genomes. The information stored in the order of bases is organized into genes: each gene contains information for making a functional product. Conversely, a person who inherits a faulty growth hormone gene may grow relatively tall if he or she is treated with growth hormone. Conversely, a person who inherits a faulty growth hormone gene may grow relatively tall if he or she is treated with growth hormone. Gene Expression: Differences between Prokaryotes and Eukaryotes However, in eukaryotes there is generally one gene that codes for one product under the control of a single promoter. This unit of a promoter, a terminator and the intervening gene or genes is called an operon. Gene expression, a process that is central to all living cells, can be summarized as a list of the following steps: The animation below illustrates the process of gene expression in eukaryotes. Gene expression, a process that is central to all living cells, can be summarized as a list of the following steps: The animation below illustrates the process of gene expression in eukaryotes. This process of making the functional gene product is gene expression. Errors during gene expression have generally short-lived effects and can be overcome by additional RNA or protein synthesis. The activity below deals with a mutation in the gene that encodes the oxygen transport protein hemoglobin. We will limit our discussion here to small-scale changes that involve one or a few nucleotides in the coding sequence of a gene. The sentence below represents a protein-coding gene. Errors during gene expression have generally short-lived effects and can be overcome by additional RNA or protein synthesis. The activity below deals with a mutation in the gene that encodes the oxygen transport protein hemoglobin. We will limit our discussion here to small-scale changes that involve one or a few nucleotides in the coding sequence of a gene. The sentence below represents a protein-coding gene. This allows a single gene with multiple exons to represent many different proteins. The general organization of information of any gene can be represented as follows: A protein-coding gene contains information for making the mRNA that is translated into a protein. First, let’s consider what kind of information in the mRNA is required to produce a protein during translation, and then we will step back and look at the information in the gene that is required for transcription. The coding region of a gene always ends with a stop codon TAA, TAG, or TGA (in mRNA, these will have a U instead of a T).  The promoter region of the gene “promotes” transcription by binding RNA polymerase. In this module you revisited how a gene can be inserted and expressed in a bacterium. In this module you revisited how a gene can be inserted and expressed in a bacterium. The general organization of information of any gene can be represented as follows: A protein-coding gene contains information for making the mRNA that is translated into a protein. First, let’s consider what kind of information in the mRNA is required to produce a protein during translation, and then we will step back and look at the information in the gene that is required for transcription. The coding region of a gene always ends with a stop codon TAA, TAG, or TGA (in mRNA, these will have a U instead of a T).  The promoter region of the gene “promotes” transcription by binding RNA polymerase.  Environmental signals can change gene expression by affecting regulatory proteins. The signaling occurs primarily through binding interactions between molecules and modifications of the proteins that often lead to changes in gene expression. The LCT gene codes for the enzyme lactase, required for breaking down lactose into glucose and galactose. In many adults, expression of the LCT gene is turned off or turned down, resulting in little or no lactase production. This ability has been linked to mutations in the regulatory region of the lactase gene that allow gene expression to continue after childhood. The gene encoding the coat color resides on the X chromosome. Gene silencing is an important way of regulating gene expression. In this spotlight, we will explore in more detail changes in gene expression (transcription) due to changes in the environment. Eukaryotes have complex regulatory mechanisms; consequently, we will focus on gene regulation in prokaryotes. The lac operon is controlled by the lac repressor, which is produced from the lacI gene. The lacI gene has its own promoter; consequently, low levels of the lac repressor protein are present all of the time. In this spotlight, we will explore in more detail changes in gene expression (transcription) due to changes in the environment. Eukaryotes have complex regulatory mechanisms; consequently, we will focus on gene regulation in prokaryotes. Regulation of gene expression by operons in prokaryotes is achieved through a balance between positive and negative control. The lac operon is controlled by the lac repressor, which is produced from the lacI gene. The lacI gene has its own promoter; consequently, low levels of the lac repressor protein are present all of the time. Therefore, when we hear someone refer to the “obesity gene,” “Alzheimer’s gene,” “breast cancer gene,” and so on, it is important to realize that these labels imply (or should imply) one of the multiple genes that contribute to each of these conditions. We must now consider alleles, which are observed variations in the sequence of bases for a particular gene. Two alleles of a gene may differ by a single base. On one end of the spectrum, an allele may refer to a total deletion of a gene. A diploid organism has two alleles of each gene, one from the organism’s mother and one from its father. The combination of the two alleles of a particular gene is the genetic determinant of the phenotypic traits of the organism. Mutation is a more general term than allele because mutation does not necessarily involve a specific gene, but can include deletion or rearrangement of multiple genes. Multiple alleles of a gene arise by mutation, and they will be passed on to the offspring and will persist in the population. Once the synthetic gene has been successfully spliced into the expression plasmid, the complete expression plasmid must be taken into the bacterial cell. Consequently, the cells are grown in the presence of an antibiotic and only those cells who have obtained the expression plasmid will live because of the gene for antibiotic resistance that is also present on the expression plasmid. This allows RNA polymerase to begin transcription of the growth hormone gene on the plasmid.  generation of a synthetic gene inserting this gene into a bacterial expression plasmid, introducing the plasmid into bacteria, production and purification of the human growth hormone. Insertion of the Human Growth Hormone Gene Into the Expression plasmid The expression plasmid would have two different restriction sites after the ribosome binding site to facilitate the insertion of the synthetic gene. To utilize these sites it would be necessary to include these restriction sites at the end of our synthetic gene. After you have generated your synthetic gene, you must insert the gene into an expression plasmid so it can be placed inside a living bacterial cell and translated into the HuGH protein. This promoter is adjacent to the growth hormone gene and will enable the transcription of the growth hormone gene into mRNA. The expression plasmid also contains the required signals for the initiation, regulation, and termination of mRNA from the inserted synthetic gene. We will synthesize our HuGH gene using a chemical method called solid-phase synthesis. If our gene is longer, we have to make it in segments and then join the individual segments together. In addition to the codons, it is necessary to add additional sequences to the end of the gene to facilitate the insertion of our synthetic gene into the expression plasmid. Consequently the complete gene is: All of the genes and alleles present in a population at some point in time.  The change in a gene pool as a result of random chance. Occurs when the type or frequency of the alleles and genotypes in a population change over one to many generations of time the environment and all of its components) impacts the evolution of a population. Microevolution tracks how the genetic traits of a population (the gene pool) change over several generations. You should be aware of how mutation, gene flow, and genetic drift can change a population’s gene pool.  Heritable variation exists in a population. In other words, the population includes different genetic types that can pass on their characteristics to their offspring. Mutations in the same gene influence coloration in a wide range of animals including fish, falcons, mice, dogs, and humans. A new “bleached” mutant appeared in the population. Adaptation results: over generations of time, those genetic types that reproduce more successfully become more common in a population. Microevolution is a process that occurs within a single population as inherited traits become more or less common from one generation to the next. It is a change in the genetic makeup of a population. Evolution is a change in a population, not in the characteristics of one individual over a single lifetime. We must broaden our focus to see evolutionary changes: in a population of thousands or millions, what percentage of lizards inherit a light color pattern and what percentage inherit darker colors? The light color of lizards from this population results from a known mutation in a pigmentation gene and helps them avoid detection by visual predators. Theorists developed models of how the gene pool of a population could change over time. Why does a gene that alters red blood cells have anything to do with malaria? Evolution is at work all around us, and every population of every organism is subjected to it. We have just learned how natural selection, sexual selection, and artificial selection can change the gene pool of a population and result in evolution. In this section we will consider other processes that can change the gene pool of a population: mutation, gene flow, and genetic drift. In the founder effect, a small number of individuals from a population settle in a new area. This small group is not likely to contain all of the alleles of the original population, just as is seen with the survivors in the bottleneck effect. If just one of the white fluffy dandelion seeds is carried by the breeze to a new location that does not have dandelions, the plant from this single seed could start a new population. As a result of the founder effect, however, the gene pool of the new population would be very limited. It would have only those alleles that were found in the original seed, drawn at random from a much larger source population. Determine if the following examples of microevolution are examples of mutation, gene flow, or genetic drift. As you can see from the examples presented here, mutations, gene flow and genetic drift are mechanisms that can alter the gene pool of a population leading to microevolution. It involves some relatively predictable elements (selection and gene flow) but also has many unpredictable aspects (mutation, genetic drift). Mutations in genes are random and have the potential to change the gene pool of a population. Technically, the birth of a single individual carrying a new mutation qualifies as microevolution: as soon as the new allele appears, the gene pool has been altered. Let's consider for a moment the gene that encodes the alpha-amylase enzyme. Assume that you were born with a new mutant version of the alpha-amylase gene. No one else in the world carries this form of the alpha-amylase gene in their cells. So as a result of this mutation, a new allele has been introduced in the gene pool of your population and of the entire human race. The type and frequency of the alleles and genotypes in your population has changed (ever so slightly)… so evolution has occurred. Let’s look at the possible outcomes of mutations on the gene pool of a population. There is a population of wild flowers in a field near your house. The orange color is more prevalent in the population and is thought to be more attractive to pollinating insects. The alleles and genotypes in a gene pool can also change via two processes that are sometimes confused with one another: gene flow and genetic drift. Gene flow refers to the movement of alleles from one population to another, as a result of migration followed by breeding. As westerners migrate to East Asia, the gene pool there changes to include more alleles that confer tall height. Gene flow involves breeding between two or more populations and it tends to make them more similar to each other. Genetic drift refers to random events that change the frequency of alleles and genotypes in a population. Recall that in selection, certain genetic types become more frequent in the population because they survive well, grow well, mate successfully, or even just because humans like them and choose to breed them. Genetic drift often reduces the diversity of a gene pool and has the biggest effect when there is a low number of organisms in the population. In two different situations, genetic drift can profoundly affect a gene pool. When events like fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, and other disasters kill a large percent of the population, the surviving population is unlikely to have the same gene pool as the original population. It is very likely that some alleles will be underrepresented or overrepresented in the surviving population as compared to the original. If a flash flood washes away and kills 900 of the trees, the alleles of these trees have been lost from the population gene pool. The flood altered the population’s gene pool in a random way. For example, pea plants have a gene that determines seed color, and the different forms (alleles) of that gene are "green seed" and "yellow seed." These words apply to changes that occur in the gene pool of a population. When evolution occurs in a population, different alleles (and genotypes) become more or less frequent within the gene pool. As a result, we observe a gradual change in the inherited characteristics of the population as one generation succeeds another. Microevolution occurs when the type or frequency of the alleles and genotypes in a population change over one to many generations of time. We’ll narrow our focus to a single gene with two alleles that determine coat thickness. As you can see from the Fox population example, evolution is not determined by the increase or decrease in the number of individuals within a population. Microevolution occurs when there are changes in the genetic makeup of the population: when the frequency (percentage) of each genotype changes over time. You will need to understand and use the following terms: species, population, and gene pool. The illustration below shows an example of how a species, population, and gene pool are related. There are two defining aspects to a population. Second, the members of a population occupy the same area. In evolutionary studies, biologists try to define populations based on actual patterns of breeding, so that individuals most often breed within their population groups; migration and mixing between populations is less frequent. The gene pool is all of the genes and alleles present in a population at some point in time. Just as the genotype is the genetic composition of an individual, the gene pool is the genetic composition of a population. The features of your particular population can be summarized in the table below: A gene pool includes all of the genes and alleles in a population, not just those for a particular trait. So the gene pool for this pea plant population actually contains genes and alleles that influence thousands of different traits. What are the mechanisms that allow for changes in the gene pool over time? Selection occurs whenever some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others in a given environment. In either case, the result is that the long-tailed mice reproduce more, on average, than other types in the population. Each individual birth or death changes a population’s gene pool by a tiny fraction: some individuals pass on their alleles through reproduction, others do not. This filtering process affects the composition of the gene pool of the population, and ultimately of the species as a whole. Remember that this population evolved, showing a dramatic increase of ff foxes with thin coats from 1962 to 2202: Wisconsin Fox Population As a result, the frequency of the FF genotypes in the population's gene pool decreased while the frequency of the ff types increased. We see this change in frequency reflected in an increase in the percentage of foxes in the population that are born with genes for a thin coat (i.e., we observe a change in the frequency of the thin coat phenotype). Diversity already exists within the alleles of a population and the environment places a selective pressure on that population. The evolution of a population is a reactive and automatic process, not a planned or deliberate one. In natural selection, some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others because they are more likely to survive or because they obtain more resources. The gene pool will contain traits of those who have survived, yes, but also of those who have mated successfully. Selection occurs whenever some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others in a given environment. the environment and all of its components) impacts the evolution of a population. There are other factors at work too, including luck: nature does not line up all the individuals in each population and kill them off systematically, leaving only those with the fittest genes to reproduce. Use this information to predict how the average tail length within a population of mice will change in the following scenarios. You are starting with a population of whitefooted mice living in an old forest. The average mouse has a medium-long tail, but there are a range of tail lengths in the population (there is heritable variation). Selection occurs whenever some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others in a given environment; in natural selection, the favored types do best because: It is a change in a population’s gene pool over time, and is an ongoing process. Natural selection is at work when certain genetic types in a population survive or grow better than others in a given environment. The environment influences the make-up of the gene pool in natural selection, and the result is often quite predictable. In contrast to natural and sexual selection, artificial selection involves the direct manipulation of a population’s gene pool through human interference. Mutation, gene flow, and genetic drift are additional ways in which evolution can occur. A mutation can add a new allele to a gene pool. Gene flow occurs when two gene pools get intermixed due to the migration of individuals from one population to another. The ease of world travel has led to an increase in gene flow among human populations in recent years. Genetic drift is a random change in the frequencies of alleles in a single population’s gene pool. Genetic drift has a large effect when the population is reduced to a small number (survivors in the bottleneck effect, founders in the founder effect). The result is a limited gene pool where some randomly selected alleles will be more or less prominent than in the original gene pool. Amazingly, he could line up matching gene sequences (long series of the nucleotide bases A,G,C,T) among various microbes, plants, animal, and fungi. He reported that there were consistent differences in ribosomal gene sequences among three major groups. Subunit 2 is a portion of the cytochrome C oxidase protein; its gene is composed of about 700 nucleotide base pairs. What does this gene say about the relationships among Carp, Salamander, Sea Turtle, Human, and Mouse? There are clearly sections of the gene where all the bases tend to agree; other regions show more differences. We can see the result of this process in islands far out at sea: a few hardy colonists “make it” to an island to start a population; after many generations they are distinct from their cousins on the mainland. Thus far, we have been exploring how subtle changes can occur within a population. The genetic makeup of populations also can change through migration and interbreeding (gene flow) and even through the vagaries of chance (genetic drift). As you should recall, microevolution occurs at the population level. But a population is only a part of a larger collection that we refer to here as a biological lineage. Circles (A-F) represent populations of various sizes linked by gene flow (white lines). Population (A) goes extinct. A mutation produces a new adaptive trait that spreads first through population E, then moves through gene flow to the remaining populations. Individual Spoonbills can move from one population to another, taking their genes and adaptive traits with them. Process in which characteristics of a population change predictably over many generations. A single trait involving multiple genes where the effect of one gene can mask the effect of a different gene. An alternative form of a gene. The gene is the basic unit of inheritance. Transcription of information encoded in a gene into RNA and eventually a polypeptide chain. It is the process by which information coded in a gene is accessed and used to produce RNA and proteins. All of the genes and alleles present in a population at some point in time.  The change in a gene pool as a result of random chance. The formation of a new species through the geographical isolation of a portion of a population from the population as a whole. Alleles (i.e., one version of a gene) present in an organism. A gene where the dominant allele is not expressed as strongly in the heterozygote as in the homozygous dominant condition. States that the two alleles for each gene separate from each other when gametes form, so that each gamete contains one allele of each gene. Occurs when the type or frequency of the alleles and genotypes in a population change over one to many generations of time the environment and all of its components) impacts the evolution of a population. Single gene with multiple effects. Process in which characteristics of a population change predictably over many generations. A stable population size. A gene where two different alleles are both expressed in the heterozygous condition. The process of codon optimization is the use of prefered codons when designing a gene to be expressed in a certain organism.

13. [u'dna', u'strands', u'strand']
  Only when both pockets of the dimer are occupied by estrogen is the receptor activated and able to bind to DNA.  The estrogen receptor binds to estrogen and this causes estrogen receptor to bind to DNA and turn genes on and off. When estrogen falls off, estrogen can no longer bind DNA and division may stop. DNA) is also electronegative. Later in the course you will encounter DNA and RNA which are polymers of nucleic acids linked by phosphodiester bonds. Later in the course you will encounter DNA and RNA which are polymers of nucleic acids linked by phosphodiester bonds. Later in the course you will encounter DNA and RNA which are polymers of nucleic acids linked by phosphodiester bonds.  A-DNA - conformation  B-DNA - conformation  Both DNA and RNA are linear polymers.  The major difference in the polymer backbones between DNA and RNA is the sugar used in the formation of the polymer. In DNA (DeoxyriboNucleic Acid) the sugar is the aldose deoxyribose with a hydrogen replacing the hydroxyl at the 2 position of ribose, a furanose. The numbering of the positions on the sugar furanose rings of DNA and RNA follow a convention that uses ' (prime) to denote the sugar positions. The images below show the backbone structures for both DNA and RNA. The following is a list of structural characteristics of the DNA/RNA polymer backbone. The following is a video in which Dr. Brown explains the structure and formation of DNA and RNA backbones. The differences in the bases, which are only found attached to a sugar, give rise to the second major variation in the difference between DNA and RNA. This latter feature provides a distinctive means for identifying the presence of DNA and RNA molecules. The variations in the structures of the purine and pyrimidine bases are limited to the five that are used during copying of DNA (Replication) or transcribing of DNA into RNA (Transcription). The following figure shows a tetranucleotide sequence of DNA. The illustration below shows a dinucleotide of DNA and RNA. While there are four bases associated with DNA and four with RNA, are they the same set in each case? In this section of the course the structures of RNA and DNA will be explored along with the processes by which they are used to transmit information. While a virus does not satisfy one of the major tenets of the Cell Theory that the entity is able to self-replicate, it still uses information from either its own DNA (RNA) or its host DNA to replicate itself. Although RNA has much of the same basic structural features of DNA, it takes on many more tertiary structures and has multiple functions in the cell.  mRNA: messenger RNA is a copy of the DNA sequence that is read by the ribosome during protein synthesis. DNA, with the aid of specific proteins and enzymes is replicated (DNA Replication) thus providing a copy to be passed to the next generation, the DNA is transcribed in sections (Transcription) into a RNA molecule that codes for a protein or that can itself be used in the form of RNA, and the RNA can be translated (Translation) into the primary sequence of a protein. The DNA and RNA polymers are linear polymers The following link is a video in which Dr. Bill Brown explains how DNA and RNA are constructed from the backbones and bases. The focus of this exercise is to itentify bonding partners that will be optimal in the formation of the DNA and RNA helical structures. The following link is a video in which Dr. Brown explains how DNA and RNA are constructed from the backbones and bases. It is the most common structural form of double stranded DNA. RNA and hybrids of DNA with RNA have altered characteristics resulting from the substitution of a ribose for a deoxyribose in the backbone structure. The following 3D representations illustrate the result of these differences in comparing similar views of the B-helix of DNA with the A-helix in duplex RNA. Instructions: The structure of DNA is shown on the left, and double stranded RNA on the right. It is the most common structural form of double stranded DNA. RNA and hybrids of DNA with RNA have altered characteristics resulting from the substitution of a ribose for a deoxyribose in the backbone structure. The following 3D representations illustrate the result of these differences in comparing similar views of the B-helix of DNA with the A-helix in duplex RNA. Instructions: The structure of DNA is shown on the left, and double stranded RNA on the right. Combining that finding with the backbone information that described DNA as containing A, T, G, and C as the possible bases and A, U, G, and C as the possible bases in RNA, the complimentary base pairing in RNA would include A with U (examine the difference in structure between T and U) with two hydrogen bonds and G with C as described in DNA. In summary, for the hybridization of two strands of DNA and RNA Because T and U are identical in the hydrogen bonding that each makes with A, this means that a backbone (strand) of DNA can hydrogen bond with another strand of DNA but also with a strand of RNA. The ability of the strands of DNA and RNA to hydrogen bond with each other either as homodimers (DNA-DNA, RNA-RNA) or as heterodimers (DNA-RNA) is referred to as hybridization. Can you generate a hybrid structure using the top 5' to 3' DNA strand from the figure above and create the appropriate RNA strand hybridized to it? Thus DNA with more GC base pairs is likely to be more stable than one with more AT base pairs. Experimentally it is possible to measure this stability by following the melting of DNA with increasing temperature. Below is a graph of the melting of DNA that coincides with an increase in the ultraviolet (UV) absorbance of the DNA at 260 nm. The midpoint of the transition from the double stranded to the single stranded form of the DNA is called the melting temperature (Tm) for the DNA. In most organisms the Tm of the chromosomal DNA ranges from 85-100 degrees C. It is possible to determine the composition of the DNA experimentally from its Tm because the Tm of DNA is directly proportional to the GC content of the DNA as graphically illustrated below. While the melting temperature does not tell us anything about the proteins that are coded by the DNA, it does tell us something about the tolerance of the organism in which the DNA is found. For example, thermophilic bacteria (those that survive at extremely high temperatures) have DNA with very high Tm values so that their DNA does not melt at their normal environmental temperature. As we will see later, this also has implications for how the same proteins can be made in two different organisms using DNA with vastly different compositions. As described in the previous section, the hybridization of DNA and RNA results in the formation of: This representation of the ladder of a double stranded DNA is illustrated in the figure below on the left side. The following link is a video in which Dr. Brown explains how DNA and RNA are constructed from the backbones and bases. A predominate feature of the DNA double helix is the presence of grooves, or indentations, on the side of the helix. Both DNA and RNA are linear polymers of building blocks. Each block contains a planer nucleotide base that is joined to a sugar, either a deoxyribose in the case of DNA or a ribose in the case of RNA. Double stranded DNA consists of two anti-parallel hydrogen bonded strands. The detailed chemical structure of DNA and RNA will be explored in more detail in the following pages.  Z-DNA - conformation Understanding the process/mechanism of DNA replication has allowed researchers to understand how certain DNA repair functions are conducted and to develop new tools that have revolutionized our ability to gain information from DNA. However at the end of the linear chromosomes, the telomeres, the lagging strand does not completely replicate to match the length of DNA generated on the leading strand. Since DNA synthesis is always unidirectional from 5’ to 3’, it is necessary to lengthen the 3’ end of the chromosome such that primer directed synthesis can take place to lengthen the shorter 5’ end of the chromosome. This process of lengthening is repeated until a the normal replication process lays down a RNA primer using the primase enzyme, DNA polymerase synthesizes new DNA from the 3’ end of the RNA primer and DNA ligase joins the newly synthesized DNA to the 5’ end of the chromosome. Two tools that have become integral parts of the study of modern biology were developed through the simple understanding of how the DNA replication process works. At the beginning of this unit three structural requirements for the substrate of DNA polymerase were described. Satisfying those requirements is the basis for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), used to amplify segments of DNA, and the Sanger DNA sequencing method used in sequencing the human genome as well as others. Previously this would have required growing large quantities of cells containing the DNA or obtaining large quantities of the tissue. DNA replication is the process of doubling the original amount of DNA. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is simply a method by which DNA replication is repeated through many cycles. In the same way that doubling a bacterial cell through 20 cycles will generate a million copies of the bacteria, replication of DNA through 20 cycles will amplify the amount of DNA by a million fold. The Challenge: To initiate the DNA replication of a chromosome the appropriate substrate conditions must be met as described previously.  PCR is limited by the length of DNA that can be repeatedly replicated by DNA polymerase. Different polymerases and different conditions are described to amplify DNA of varying lengths. Routinely, segments of DNA from 500 to 1000 bp in length are easily replicated. The segment of DNA to be replicated is defined by the position of the primers that define the start of the replication on each strand. The double stranded DNA to be amplified is melted by raising the temperature high enough to fully melt the DNA creating single stranded DNA. The appropriate substrate conditions for DNA polymerase binding and synthesis are now in place. DNA polymerase is added with the dNTPs and synthesis of DNA proceeds for as long as the reaction is allowed to progress before either the time of the reaction ends or the DNA polymerase falls off the substrate.  The temperature is raised again to melt the DNA and create a single stranded template.  Because DNA polymerase will generally denature and irreversibly inactivate at these elevated temperatures it is necessary to add fresh DNA polymerase at each cycle when the temperature is lowered during primer attachment. To avoid repetitive addition of a very expensive enzyme after each cycle and to make automation of the process feasible, there was an advantage to finding a DNA polymerase that survives high temperatures and in fact is active at high temperatures. One such enzyme, taq DNA polymerase from thermos aquaticus, is optimally active around 75 degrees and can withstand temperatures as high as 100 degrees without denaturing. Thus the PCR reaction can be performed in a closed tube with DNA to be amplified, taq DNA polymerase, excess dNTPs, and excess amounts of the forward and reverse primers. Now the temperature is raised to form single stranded DNA, lowered to bind the primers and DNA polymerase with the correct substrate again replicates the DNA. After 20 cycles of this process with each cycle doubling the number of duplex DNA strands present, there will be 1, 048,576 copies of the DNA present.  DNA Sequencing Current methods of DNA sequencing rely on understanding the substrate requirements of DNA polymerase and the concept of competition. To sequence DNA as with PCR it is necessary to create single stranded DNA that will act as the template. It is generally required that to ensure valid DNA sequence, a double stranded segment of DNA should be sequenced in both directions using primers at each of sequence to be defined. However, where PCR replicates both strands simultaneously, DNA sequencing is performed on each strand individually. Starting with the single stranded template and the bound primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, the conditions are set for DNA polymerase to replicate the DNA. If all four dNTPs were added at this point simple replication of the strand of DNA would occur and no information would be gained. The requirement for synthesis by DNA polymerase has been lost. If complete replacement of dATP with ddATP were made, then the first time a T were encountered in the template strand, DNA polymerase would incorporate ddATP and all synthesis would halt. If however, a mixture of dATP and ddATP were present, then when the first T were encountered in the template, the dATP and ddATP would compete for the active site of DNA polymerase. If dATP is incorporated, synthesis continues to the next nucleotide and if ddTAP is incorporated synthesis halts for that one strand of DNA. Thus in a population of template strands, a fragment of DNA starting at the primer and ending at each T would be generated with the length of the fragment in nucleotide units defines the location of the T in the template strand.  The origin of replication has been described as a specific DNA sequence to which initiator protein (DnaA) binds and initiates the process of creating the open complex for synthesis. A bp or base pair is the unit of length of DNA measured in single nucleotides or hydrogen bonded base pairs along the polymer chain.  What if DNA polymerase makes a mistake? The Challenge: DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA at rates up to 500 bp/sec. The consequences of these errors will be apparent as we move toward the discussion of DNA transcription and RNA Translation. DNA polymerases are members of a very interesting family of enzymes because of the multi functional nature of their activity. As has been discussed previously, they are capable of synthesizing DNA given the appropriate substrate. They have their own activity to remove RNA and/or DNA in front of the synthesis as described on the lagging strand of the replication fork. In addition to editing during synthesis, there is also monitoring of the DNA for missed errors resulting from replication and for post-replication damage to the DNA. In each of these cases the process involves cutting one of the strands of the DNA specifically creating a condition by which a DNA polymerase can replace the error or damaged DNA followed by ligation of the nicked DNA using DNA ligase. Having explored the requirements for DNA polymerase, it is clear that the prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes fail the first requirement of a single stranded sequence of DNA. Therefore to initiate DNA replication it is necessary to create the conditions that will allow DNA polymerase to carry out DNA synthesis.  This process of DNA replication continues until the entire sequence of DNA is synthesized.  First the DNA must be opened by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs and unwinding the DNA. This is initiated by a protein called the initiator protein or DnaA that recognizes a specific DNA sequence called the origin of replication, binds to the sequence and opens up the sequence to create a replication bubble (open complex). An enzyme called a helicase binds to the open complex and extends the melted region of the double stranded DNA to further open the replication bubble. There now exists a single stranded segment of DNA exposed on both chains of the DNA double helix.  With formation of an open complex, one of the requirements for DNA polymerase is satisfied: single stranded DNA is generated. At either end of the open complex where the single stranded and double stranded DNA meet, a structure referred to as the replication fork exists. To allow the binding of DNA polymerase, a second requirement must be met for the structure of the substrate. An enzyme called Primase synthesizes a short (approximately 10 nucleotides), complementary RNA primer on each strand of the DNA in a 5’ to 3’ unidirectional fashion. This complex of DNA and protein at the replication fork is referred to as the replisome.  The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase have been satisfied and synthesis begins. Helicase continues to melt the DNA in front of DNA polymerase.  As single stranded DNA is generated between the ‘back’ of the RNA primer on one strand and the opening replication fork, a new segment of RNA primer is laid down near the opening fork and DNA polymerase synthesizes a new complementary strand of DNA from the primer toward 5’ end of the existing primer and stops. This segment of DNA that is not connected to the next segment is referred to as an Okazaki Fragment. Synthesis on this lagging strand is said to be discontinuous since it is generated in uniform lengths of DNA starting from one primer and stopping before the next RNA primer. Synthesis on the opposite strand is a continuous uninterrupted process starting from the initial primer and continuing as long as the DNA continues to open up at the replication fork. The following animation depicts the complete process of DNA replication. To accomplish this mending of the DNA, a separate DNA polymerase binds to the ‘nick’ left in the DNA between the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA and the 5’ end of the RNA primer. The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase are met even though there is no apparent single stranded DNA present. The DNA polymerase removes the RNA primer and a few nucleotides of DNA in front of it while simultaneously synthesizing DNA on the 3’ end of the existing DNA. When only DNA is present, the DNA polymerase releases from the DNA leaving a nick in the DNA between two DNA segments. DNA polymerase does not have a function to join the two ends of the DNA together and thus a separate enzyme, DNA Ligase, recognizes the nick in the DNA and links the 3’ end of the one segment to the 5’ end of the next segment.  Initiation of synthesis from double stranded DNA  This process of DNA replication continues until the entire sequence of DNA is synthesized.  obsolete:DNA sythesis starts with the recognition of the 3' end of a primer attached to a DNA template. DNA polymerase binds to the 3' end of the primer and builds a complementary strand of DNA in the 5' to 3' direction. Having explored the requirements for DNA polymerase, it is clear that the prokaryotic and eukaryotic genome fails the first requirement of a single stranded sequence of DNA. Therefore to initiate DNA replication it is necessary to create the conditions that will allow DNA polymerase to carry out DNA synthesis.  [insert screen shot of open complex at the end of the SSB protein segment of the simulation on DNA replication page] [insert screen shot of replisome at one fork from DNA replication simulation stopped at point where Primase has added the RNA primer but DNA polymerase as not yet arrived.]  [Note: the segment in the animation that has formation of replisome should stop at point where primase has laid down the red RNA primer and the DNA polymerase has arrived but not started synthesis]  [Insert illustration from DNA replication that shows multiple Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand and a continuous strand on the leading strand at a replication fork.] The following animation depicts the complete process of DNA replication. To accomplish this mending of the DNA, a separate DNA polymerase binds to the ‘nick’ left in the DNA between the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA and the 5’ end of the RNA primer. The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase are met even though there is no apparent single stranded DNA present. The DNA polymerase removes the RNA primer and a few nucleotides of DNA in front of it while simultaneously synthesizing DNA on the 3’ end of the existing DNA. Once only DNA is present, the DNA polymerase releases from the DNA leaving a nick in the DNA between two DNA segments. DNA polymerase does not have a function to join the two ends of the DNA together and thus a separate enzyme, DNA Ligase, recognizes the nick in the DNA and links the 3’ end of the one segment to the 5’ end of the next segment. As discussed at the beginning of this unit, modern molecular biology has developed a Central Dogma that describes a series of processes starting with DNA and ending with the production of a protein using the genetic code. The initiation of this process is DNA Replication, highlighted in red, which describes the copying of the information existing in DNA to new DNA. While there are differences between prokaryotes and eukaryotes, there are great similarities in the mechanism by which they replicate their DNA. This unit will describe this mechanism of DNA replication In addition, an understanding of the enzymes that are involved in faithfully copying the DNA has also lead to their use in applications that have advanced our knowledge of genomes, the information they contain and how they are used. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and DNA sequencing using dideoxynucleotides have revolutionized our ability to work with small amounts of DNA and generate immense amounts of sequence information in a very short time. The understanding of the basic principles involved in DNA replication have also lead to our understanding of such topics as DNA repair and chromosome extension. DNA replication is the process by which DNA is copied resulting in a faithful replicate of the original double stranded DNA. Key to the inheritance of the code for materials produced and used in a cell, DNA replication must be faithful thus not allowing or minimizing errors during the process and it must generate new DNA that can be transmitted to the next generation. Because DNA replication generates a copy of the original, it is referred to as DNA dependent DNA synthesis. It is dependent on DNA because it must have a template to use in making the copy and the result is a new strand of double stranded (duplex) DNA.  As with any enzyme, DNA polymerase has a very specific set of requirements for recognition of its substrate. For DNA polymerase the substrate is single stranded DNA not double stranded DNA. Thus DNA polymerase is not able to bind to or recognize an intact genome but rather it uses each single strand of DNA as a template. While DNA polymerase requires single stranded DNA as a template, it does not have the ability to start anywhere on the strand and initiate de novo synthesis. The active site of the polymerase requires a segment of DNA or RNA bound in a complimentary manner to the single stranded template as an initiation point for the synthesis reaction. This segment of DNA or RNA is generally referred to as the primer. If you examine the structure of either DNA or RNA there are two places that a new deoxy-nucleotide can be added to extend the length of the complementary strand. While DNA synthesis could be from either end of the primer, during replication using the enzyme DNA polymerase the synthesis is restricted by the enzyme to growth in only one direction. Not only does it require a DNA template and a primer, but the primer must have a free, 3’ hydroxyl group for the addition of the next deoxy-nucleotide. And finally, all four deoxy-nucleotide triphosphates must be present to completely synthesis the complementary strand of DNA. For DNA synthesis (replication) this means dATP, dTTP, dCTP, and dGTP must be present. More than one DNA polymerase enzyme is known and each carries out a specific function depending on the situation. For example, DNA polymerase III is the enzyme used in replicating a genome while DNA polymerase I is used in DNA repair. Even with clear differences as to when each of the DNA polymerases is used during the replication of DNA, the basic substrate requirements are the same. The following diagram depicts the structural requirements for the operation of DNA polymerase enzymes.  Perfect Substrate for DNA Polymerase  Synthesis (the making of new DNA) Once the appropriate structural requirements for the synthesis of DNA are met, DNA synthesis occurs continuously in a unidirection process from 5’ to 3’ along the template. The following animation demonstrates the building of a complementary strand using the components required by DNA polymerase. This process can take place wherever the initial conditions for operation of DNA polymerase exist. The process of DNA replication requires that the original DNA act as a template for the newly formed DNA. How the new DNA acts as a template could occur in multiple ways. As depicted below the double stranded DNA (anti-parallel strands indicated by the grey and opposite polarity blue strand) could be completely copied leaving the original strands of DNA intact (grey) and yielding a newly synthesized double strand DNA containing two new strands (blue). The second model of DNA replication starts with the same double stranded DNA but the products each contain one of the original strands and a complementary newly synthesized strand. Biological organisms have been shown to replicate their DNA by semi-conservative synthesis.  DNA synthesis DNA synthesis in biological systems is a very directed process controlled by specific enzymes that both dictate where synthesis begins and the exact structural conditions required to undertake DNA synthesis. Knowledge of these conditions and the process involved in DNA synthesis has become the basis for understanding other biological processes involving DNA and in the design of a set of tools essential to the advancement of the study of modern molecular biology.  DNA polymerases (setting the rules) DNA polymerase is an enzyme that has very specific substrate requirements and thus controls where the synthesis of DNA can take place. An understanding of the basic mechanism of this enzyme will make the understanding of how DNA replication works become clear. The second phase of the Central Dogma is the process of transcription, which is summarized as DNA directed RNA synthesis. This unit will describe the process of DNA transcription and the different categories of products and how each is processed. The process of DNA transcription is described as DNA-directed RNA synthesis. This process, which takes place in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, has many similarities with DNA replication. The enzyme to catalyze the process is RNA Polymerase that likewise has some characteristics similar to those of DNA polymerase used in replication but it also has significant differences. RNA polymerase is an example of a quaternary structure composed of a core protein for the synthesis the complementary RNA strand and a subunit, the Sigma subunit, that first binds to the promoter region of the Operon and creates an open complex by unwinding the double stranded DNA. This process of change after transcription from DNA to RNA is called post-transcriptional modification.  During both replication and transcription errors can be made in the incorporation of the correct bases during the complementary copying of the DNA. Transfer-RNA (tRNA) was introduced in the section on the structure of DNA and RNA and its production and post-transcriptional modification were briefly described in the previous section. When first formed, all cells include DNA and other macromolecules and are organized to grow, reproduce, and respond to changes in the external environment. All cells have DNA as the molecule of inheritance and share many other detailed features. All cells have DNA as the molecule of inheritance and they also share many other detailed features. DNA, the molecule of inheritance, encodes proteins and other molecules that build cells and make them work. This figure shows cells (outlined in green) and their DNA (stained in blue). This figure shows cells (outlined in green) and their DNA (stained in blue). Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. Viruses grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. DNA is built of four kinds of monomers (nucleotides). The DNA in one of your microscopic cells contains a sequence of almost 3 billion nucleotides! The physical traits an organism displays are ultimately determined by the DNA found within the organism’s cells. In Unit 8: Molecular Genetics, we will connect heredity to DNA, the genetic material of the cell. We will specifically explore DNA function and figure out how DNA determines the heritable traits that individual organisms can pass to their offspring. This figure shows cells (outlined in green) and their DNA (stained in blue). Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. Viruses grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Physical traits an organism displays are ultimately determined by the DNA found within the organism’s cells. In this unit, we will connect heredity to DNA, the genetic material of the cell. We will specifically explore DNA function and figure out how DNA determines the heritable traits that individual organisms can pass to their offspring. Physical traits an organism displays are ultimately determined by the DNA found within the organism’s cells. In this unit, we will connect heredity to DNA, the genetic material of the cell. We will specifically explore DNA function and figure out how DNA determines the heritable traits that individual organisms can pass to their offspring. And it reproduces itself with the help of DNA, a macromolecule that stores information that helps to guide the cell’s growth. Viruses grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Grow and reproduce with the help of DNA. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. Living organisms grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Grow and reproduce with the help of DNA. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. Grow, develop and reproduce with the help of DNA. However, if even one of these conditions is not met (rock crystals do not reproduce with help from DNA), the object in question cannot be considered alive. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. Living organisms grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA. DNA is built of four kinds of monomers (nucleotides). The DNA in one of your microscopic cells contains a sequence of almost three billion nucleotides. When observing corn chromosomes under a microscope, she noticed that DNA fragments regularly broke off, or disassociated, from a chromosome and reinserted itself into another chromosome. She called these segments of DNA “jumping genes” or transposable genetic elements (transposons). DNA and RNA are both nucleic acids. DNA, for example, occurs as a double-stranded molecule. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are the molecules involved with storing our genetic information (DNA) or the conversion of that information into proteins (RNA). Sugars (deoxyribose in DNA, ribose in RNA) play a part in the structure of these nucleic acid molecules. Examples of organic molecules include glucose, methane, DNA, protein, and fat. Examples of organic molecules include glucose, methane, DNA, protein, and fat. Nucleic acids (such as DNA) are essential for information storage within a cell and passing on this information to the next generation. Nucleic acids (such as DNA) are essential for information storage within a cell and passing on this information to the next generation. For example, many proteins bind to DNA (or RNA) by utilizing the electrostatic interaction between positive charges on the protein and negative charges on the DNA or RNA. Many proteins bind to DNA (or RNA) by utilizing the electrostatic interaction between positive charges on the protein and negative charges on the DNA or RNA. A special case of the phosphate group is a phosphate diester, which links together nucleotides in DNA and RNA. A special case of the phosphate group is a phosphate diester, which links together nucleotides in DNA and RNA. For example, many proteins bind to DNA (or RNA) by utilizing the electrostatic interaction between positive charges on the protein and negative charges on the DNA or RNA. Proteins play a role in the storage, replication, transmission, and regulation of genetic information (DNA). For example, when proteins bind to DNA, it is the DNA that is the ligand. There are two types of nucleic acids: DNA and RNA. DNA carries the genetic blueprint of the cell and is passed on from parents to offspring. DNA is the genetic material that stores information for making proteins in all living organisms. Some viruses store their genetic information in RNA instead of DNA. This may seem as an exception to the universal use of DNA as genetic material; however, viruses are not cellular, and are not considered living organisms. DNA is found in the nucleus of eukaryotes and in two cellular organelles: chloroplasts, and mitochondria. In prokaryotes, DNA is not enclosed in a separate compartment, but found in the cytoplasm. For protein synthesis to occur, genetic information stored in DNA must first be copied into RNA. Thus, while both RNA and DNA can contain instructions for making proteins, DNA is used for storage of this information, while RNA is directly involved in making proteins. In DNA, you will find these nitrogenous bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). DNA and RNA nucleotides contain just one phosphate. In DNA, you will find these nitrogenous bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). DNA and RNA nucleotides contain just one phosphate. Just as with proteins, a DNA (or RNA) strand has directionality: one end is different than the other. Since it is the order of bases that carries out the function of DNA (information storage), we often represent DNA as just a sequence of bases (GAGGCT) and do not bother representing the backbone. By convention, the first letter is the base at the 5’ (five prime) end of the DNA strand. Determine how this directionally occurs in DNA in the following learn by doing. Just as with proteins, a DNA (or RNA) strand has directionality: one end is different than the other. Since it is the order of bases that carries out the function of DNA (information storage), we often represent DNA as just a sequence of bases (GAGGCT) and do not bother representing the backbone. By convention, the first letter is the base at the 5’ (five prime) end of the DNA strand. Determine how this directionally occurs in DNA in the following learn by doing. What component or feature of DNA can contain this information? The backbone of all DNA molecules is the same. But there are only 4 bases found in DNA : G,A,C,T! The DNA alphabet can encode very complex instructions using just 4 letters, though the messages end up being really long. The human genome (all the DNA of an organism) is around 3 billion nucleotides divided up between 23 DNA molecules. The 23 different DNA molecules are known as chromosomes. All DNA found in living organisms comes in sets of two polymers or strands, usually referred to as double-stranded DNA. Some viruses are an exception to this rule and contain single-stranded DNA as their genetic material. DNA structure is an antiparallel double helix: the two DNA strands run in opposite directions. All DNA found in living organisms comes in sets of two polymers or strands, usually referred to as double-stranded DNA. Some viruses are an exception to this rule and contain single-stranded DNA as their genetic material. DNA structure is an antiparallel double helix: the two DNA strands run in opposite directions. All DNA found in living organisms comes in sets of two polymers or strands, usually referred to as double-stranded DNA. Some viruses are an exception to this rule and contain single-stranded DNA as their genetic material. DNA structure is an antiparallel double helix: the two DNA strands run in opposite directions. Specific base pairing in DNA is the key to copying the DNA or reading the information in DNA: if we know the sequence of one strand, we can use base pairing rules to build the other strand! The process of copying DNA is called DNA replication (think of making a copy or a replica!). Before a cell divides, it must first make a copy of its DNA using DNA replication. The enzyme catalyzing DNA replication is called DNA polymerase (makes the new DNA polymer). One double stranded DNA molecule when replicated, will become two double stranded molecules, each containing one original strand and one newly synthesized strand. The synthesis of the new DNA strand can only happen in one direction: from the 5’to the 3’ end,that is the new bases are always added to the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA. The ‘learn by doing” activity below will help you understand the process of DNA replication in more detail. Two of the most important nucleic acids are DNA and RNA. DNA contains the instructions for building proteins. Compare DNA and RNA and answer the questions about these structures. Two of the most important nucleic acids are DNA and RNA. DNA contains the instructions for building proteins. Compare DNA and RNA and answer the questions about these structures. Both DNA and RNA are informational molecules – the information is contained in the order of bases. The overall flow of information from DNA to proteins is summarized as follows: Information contained in DNA is used in two ways: it must be transmitted to the next generation of cells and used to make proteins. Prior to cell division, all DNA must be copied (DNA replication), so that the two daughter cells have the same DNA as the original cell. Information contained in DNA is organized into genes and each gene contains instructions for making a functional product: an RNA molecule or a protein. Different cells can contain the same DNA, but express different genes and produce different proteins. Nerve cells contain the same DNA, but the hemoglobin gene is not expressed. During gene expression, information stored in DNA is first copied (or transcribed) into RNA in a process called transcription (think about scribes copying books in medieval times). Only one of the two DNA strands is transcribed and the order of bases in RNA is determined by the base paring of the ribonucleotides with the DNA. Since in RNA, the base T is absent and U is present instead, A of the DNA will pair with U in the RNA. If the transcribed DNA strand has a sequence: Note that it has exactly the same sequence as the upper DNA strand, but with T replaced by U. As you know, transcription is the process through which a complementary copy of mRNA is synthesized using one strand of DNA as a template. The focus of this exercise is to itentify bonding partners that will be optimal in the formation of the DNA and RNA helical structures. Combining that finding with the backbone information that described DNA as containing A, T, G, and C as the possible bases and A, U, G, and C as the possible bases in RNA, the complimentary base pairing in RNA would include A with U (examine the difference in structure between T and U) with two hydrogen bonds and G with C as described in DNA. The absorbance values depend, in part, on the DNA structure because single stranded DNA will absorb less light than double stranded DNA. You measure a known amount of double stranded DNA at body temperature (37°C) and get an absorbance reading indicated at point A on the graph below. You take that same concentration of DNA and raise the temperature to 65°C, when you measure the absorbance you get the reading indicated at point B. You take that same concentration of DNA and increase the temperature once more to 95°C, when you measure the absorbance you get the reading indicated at point C. In summary, for the hybridization of two strands of DNA and RNA: Because T and U are identical in the hydrogen bonding that each makes with A, this means that a backbone (strand) of DNA can hydrogen bond with another strand of DNA but also with a strand of RNA. The ability of the strands of DNA and RNA to hydrogen bond with each other either as homodimers (DNA-DNA, RNA-RNA) or as heterodimers (DNA-RNA) is referred to as hybridization. Can you generate a hybrid structure using the top 5' to 3' DNA strand from the figure above and create the appropriate RNA strand hybridized to it? Thus DNA with more GC base pairs is likely to be more stable than one with more AT base pairs. Experimentally it is possible to measure this stability by following the melting of DNA with increasing temperature. Below is a graph of the melting of DNA that coincides with an increase in the ultraviolet (UV) absorbance of the DNA at 260 nm. The midpoint of the transition from the double stranded to the single stranded form of the DNA is called the melting temperature (Tm) for the DNA. In most organisms the Tm of the chromosomal DNA ranges from 85-100 degrees C. It is possible to determine the composition of the DNA experimentally from its Tm because the Tm of DNA is directly proportional to the GC content of the DNA as graphically illustrated below. While the melting temperature does not tell us anything about the proteins that are coded by the DNA, it does tell us something about the tolerance of the organism in which the DNA is found. For example, thermophilic bacteria (those that survive at extremely high temperatures) have DNA with very high Tm values so that their DNA does not melt at their normal environmental temperature. As we will see later, this also has implications for how the same proteins can be made in two different organisms using DNA with vastly different compositions. DNA is the genetic material that stores information for making proteins in all living organisms. Some viruses store their genetic information in RNA instead of DNA. This may seem like an exception to the universal use of DNA as genetic material; however, recall that viruses are not cellular, and are not considered living organisms. DNA is probably the most familiar nucleic acid, but in this module, you will also learn about RNA. The nucleotides that are used to build RNA molecules are different from the nucleotides that are used to build DNA. In prokaryotes, the main DNA molecule (bacterial chromosome) is present in a region called the nucleoid, but the nucleoid lacks a surrounding membrane. Smaller DNA molecules called plasmids can be also found in prokaryotes. Prokaryotic DNA is circular, in contrast to the linear structure of eukaryotic DNA. The cytoplasm contains the DNA and the ribosomes, where protein synthesis takes place. In prokaryotes, the main DNA molecule (bacterial chromosome) is present in a region called the nucleoid, but the nucleoid lacks a surrounding membrane. Smaller DNA molecules called plasmids can be also found in prokaryotes. Prokaryotic DNA is circular, in contrast to the linear structure of eukaryotic DNA. The cytoplasm contains the DNA and the ribosomes, where protein synthesis takes place. The nucleus is surrounded by a double-membrane called the nuclear envelope, and contains chromatin, a protein-DNA complex. Today, both mitochondria and chloroplasts retain their own circular DNA. A single molecule of DNA is called a chromosome. A single molecule of DNA is called a chromosome. You learned about eukaryotic cells, which have DNA contained in the nucleus, and prokaryotic cells which lack a nucleus altogether (though they do not lack DNA). This DNA replication occurs in the synthesis (S) stage of the cell cycle just prior to mitosis. The process of mitosis sorts the DNA equally into two separate nuclei. Mitosis begins when DNA condenses into chromosomes visible under a light microscope. Each half of the X is a copy of the same DNA strand. Mitosis begins when DNA condenses into chromosomes visible under a light microscope. Each half of the X is a copy of the same DNA strand. Mitosis begins when DNA condenses into chromosomes visible under the light microscope. Mutations are errors in DNA that can result from genetic predisposition or environmental factors. Mutations are errors in DNA that can result from genetic predisposition or environmental factors. As you recall, genetic information is contained in DNA, which in eukaryotic cells are bound to special proteins called histones. The combination of DNA and histone proteins is called chromatin. During the S-phase of the cell cycle, the chromatin is loose, to facilitate DNA replication. As you learned, genetic information is contained in DNA, which in eukaryotic cells is bound to special proteins called histones. The combination of DNA and histone proteins is called chromatin. During the S phase of the cell cycle, the chromatin is loose, to facilitate DNA replication. Meiosis II begins with two haploid cells, each containing too much DNA. Meiosis also requires the DNA to be replicated. DNA replication (or DNA synthesis) occurs in the synthesis (S) stage of the cell cycle. Chromosomes are made up of two major parts: DNA and proteins. Both DNA and proteins are large molecules. DNA is the molecule that stores and transmits inherited genetic information. Information is stored in DNA in segments called genes. In the diagram above, the ruler represents the entire DNA molecule. These proteins associate with DNA in a very precise way. First, they couple with DNA at regularly spaced intervals. Because the DNA is wound around the histones in such an organized way, the DNA can be easily wound up and unwound at various points during the cell cycle. For example, chromosomes must unwind slightly when a new copy of DNA is made. In order for a new copy of the DNA to be made, the replication enzymes must be able to access the DNA. It is nearly impossible for these enzymes to get to the DNA if the DNA is tightly bound by histone proteins. Therefore, the chromosomes are unwound prior to DNA replication. Following DNA replication (synthesis), the chromosomes become very tightly wound as the cell gets ready to divide during mitosis or meiosis. Without an organized compaction system, the long pieces of DNA in chromosomes could easily become "knotted" and tangled. Keeping the DNA organized is critical, especially when you consider that the DNA in one human cell is three feet long when it is stretched out straight. One of these is the winding of DNA around histone molecules. As a result of this winding, the DNA molecule becomes shorter than before it was wound around the histone molecules. The videos below are two illustrations of the winding of DNA around histones. The left video shows the DNA strand coiling and condensing to form chromosomes; on the right, a model depicts the structure of DNA. Now look at an image of the relationship between DNA and histones in chromosomes that is more realistic than what is shown in our ruler-and-clay diagram above. When the DNA becomes tightly wound around the histone proteins, imagine that the chromosome looks as illustrated below. Chromosomes are the condensed form of chromatin, the combination of DNA and proteins that fill the eukaryotic nucleus. The copied DNA strands remain attached near their centers in a region called the centromere. Each copy of the DNA is called a chromatid, and both copies are called a chromosome. The DNA is packaged by wrapping it tightly around proteins called histones. The process ensures identical DNA is present in both daughter cells. The process ensures identical DNA is present in both daughter cells. One molecule that is unique to your cells is DNA. No other organism (except an identical twin) has the same DNA as you, so your cells need to build it anew in order to pass it on to the next generation Anabolic reactions are central to processes like photosynthesis, protein synthesis, and DNA replication. Segment of DNA with instructions for protein synthesis.  One of the common characteristics of living organisms is that they carry their genetic information in the DNA molecule.  One of the common characteristics of living organisms is that they carry their genetic information in the DNA molecule. Genetic information (DNA) carried in the parents’ cells is passed on to the next generation. In people, for instance, DNA is responsible for a child’s height and skin pigmentation. Environmental factors can influence our DNA, and our DNA can influence how we react to environmental factors. In humans, for instance, DNA is responsible for a child’s height and skin pigmentation. Environmental factors can influence our DNA, and our DNA can influence how we react to environmental factors. We know now that genes are DNA sequences found in chromosomes, and the segregation is due to the process of meiosis you have already learned about. We know now that genes are DNA sequences found in chromosomes, and the segregation is due to the process of meiosis you have already learned about. One of these components is the DNA, which is arranged into one or more chromosomes. DNA carries the information about how proteins are built, and proteins carry out many of the reactions necessary for living organisms. One of the common characteristics of living organisms is that they carry their genetic information in the DNA molecule. Changes to the DNA nucleotide sequence. Enzyme involved in transcription, build an RNA strand using DNA as a template. Reading the DNA and encoding an mRNA molecule with information to be taken to protein-synthesizing regions of the cell. Change in genotype and phenotype resulting from assimilation of outside DNA. A circular double stranded DNA molecule that contains all of the necessary DNA sequences to allow for maintenance of the plasmid as well as the production of mRNA from genes inserted into the plasmid. Tightly coiled form of the DNA-protein complex. Enzyme involved in DNA replication, recognizes the primer and adds nucleotides to the 3’ end of the primer. Synthesis of a new DNA double helix. Each strand in the existing double helix is used as a template strand to build a new DNA strand. molecules that make up the individual structural units of the nucleic acids RNA and DNA. In the DNA Function module , you learned that genetic information is stored in the sequence of bases in the DNA molecules. The theme “structure determines function” clearly applies to DNA: the double-stranded structure of DNA provides a way for copying the information each time a cell has to divide because each of the two strands serves as a template for the new double-stranded DNA molecule (DNA replication). In the Gene Expression module, you learned how information stored in DNA is used by the cell to make proteins. Central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of genetic information from DNA to RNA to protein. Many prokaryotic genes with related functions reside next to each other on DNA (operons) and are expressed together in a single RNA. The modular organization of eukaryotic genes gives more flexibility in gene expression, because one DNA sequence can give rise to different versions of RNA and protein in different cells. In addition to DNA damage by mutagens, environment can affect gene expression directly via regulatory proteins, or indirectly by changing packaging of DNA. Since genetic code is nearly universal, DNA from humans can be “read” by other cells and used to make proteins. A large number of techniques have been developed for manipulating DNA: PCR is used to make copies of DNA fragments, specialized enzymes are used to cut and put together DNA fragments, and special procedures drive foreign DNA into the cells and induce expression of the foreign gene. In the DNA Function module , you learned that genetic information is stored in the sequence of bases in the DNA molecules. The theme “structure determines function” clearly applies to DNA: the double-stranded structure of DNA provides a way for copying the information each time a cell has to divide because each of the two strands serves as a template for the new double-stranded DNA molecule (DNA replication). In the Gene Expression module, you learned how information stored in DNA is used by the cell to make proteins. Central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of genetic information from DNA to RNA to protein. Many prokaryotic genes with related functions reside next to each other on DNA (operons) and are expressed together in a single RNA. The modular organization of eukaryotic genes gives more flexibility in gene expression, because one DNA sequence can give rise to different versions of RNA and protein in different cells. In addition to DNA damage by mutagens, environment can affect gene expression directly via regulatory proteins, or indirectly by changing packaging of DNA. Since genetic code is nearly universal, DNA from humans can be “read” by other cells and used to make proteins. A large number of techniques have been developed for manipulating DNA: PCR is used to make copies of DNA fragments, specialized enzymes are used to cut and put together DNA fragments, and special procedures drive foreign DNA into the cells and induce expression of the foreign gene. First, we will discuss the storage, transmission, and expression of genetic information (central dogma of molecular biology) whereby the information content in DNA sequences, called genes, are ultimately converted to a protein.  In Molecular Genetics, first you will learn about the storage, transmission, and expression of genetic information (central dogma of molecular biology), whereby the information content in DNA sequences, called genes, is ultimately converted to a protein. Understanding the process/mechanism of DNA replication has allowed researchers to understand how certain DNA repair functions are conducted and to develop new tools that have revolutionized our ability to gain information from DNA. However at the end of the linear chromosomes, the telomeres, the lagging strand does not completely replicate to match the length of DNA generated on the leading strand. Since DNA synthesis is always unidirectional from 5’ to 3’, it is necessary to lengthen the 3’ end of the chromosome such that primer directed synthesis can take place to lengthen the shorter 5’ end of the chromosome. This process of lengthening is repeated until a the normal replication process lays down a RNA primer using the primase enzyme, DNA polymerase synthesizes new DNA from the 3’ end of the RNA primer and DNA ligase joins the newly synthesized DNA to the 5’ end of the chromosome. Two tools that have become integral parts of the study of modern biology were developed through the simple understanding of how the DNA replication process works. At the beginning of this unit three structural requirements for the substrate of DNA polymerase were described. Satisfying those requirements is the basis for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), used to amplify segments of DNA, and the Sanger DNA sequencing method used in sequencing the human genome as well as others. Previously this would have required growing large quantities of cells containing the DNA or obtaining large quantities of the tissue. DNA replication is the process of doubling the original amount of DNA. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is simply a method by which DNA replication is repeated through many cycles. In the same way that doubling a bacterial cell through 20 cycles will generate a million copies of the bacteria, replication of DNA through 20 cycles will amplify the amount of DNA by a million fold. The Challenge: To initiate the DNA replication of a chromosome the appropriate substrate conditions must be met as described previously.  PCR is limited by the length of DNA that can be repeatedly replicated by DNA polymerase. Different polymerases and different conditions are described to amplify DNA of varying lengths. Routinely, segments of DNA from 500 to 1000 bp in length are easily replicated. The segment of DNA to be replicated is defined by the position of the primers that define the start of the replication on each strand. The double stranded DNA to be amplified is melted by raising the temperature high enough to fully melt the DNA creating single stranded DNA. The appropriate substrate conditions for DNA polymerase binding and synthesis are now in place. DNA polymerase is added with the dNTPs and synthesis of DNA proceeds for as long as the reaction is allowed to progress before either the time of the reaction ends or the DNA polymerase falls off the substrate.  The temperature is raised again to melt the DNA and create a single stranded template.  Because DNA polymerase will generally denature and irreversibly inactivate at these elevated temperatures it is necessary to add fresh DNA polymerase at each cycle when the temperature is lowered during primer attachment. To avoid repetitive addition of a very expensive enzyme after each cycle and to make automation of the process feasible, there was an advantage to finding a DNA polymerase that survives high temperatures and in fact is active at high temperatures. One such enzyme, taq DNA polymerase from thermos aquaticus, is optimally active around 75 degrees and can withstand temperatures as high as 100 degrees without denaturing. Thus the PCR reaction can be performed in a closed tube with DNA to be amplified, taq DNA polymerase, excess dNTPs, and excess amounts of the forward and reverse primers. Now the temperature is raised to form single stranded DNA, lowered to bind the primers and DNA polymerase with the correct substrate again replicates the DNA. After 20 cycles of this process with each cycle doubling the number of duplex DNA strands present, there will be 1, 048,576 copies of the DNA present.  DNA Sequencing Current methods of DNA sequencing rely on understanding the substrate requirements of DNA polymerase and the concept of competition. To sequence DNA as with PCR it is necessary to create single stranded DNA that will act as the template. It is generally required that to ensure valid DNA sequence, a double stranded segment of DNA should be sequenced in both directions using primers at each of sequence to be defined. However, where PCR replicates both strands simultaneously, DNA sequencing is performed on each strand individually. Starting with the single stranded template and the bound primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, the conditions are set for DNA polymerase to replicate the DNA. If all four dNTPs were added at this point simple replication of the strand of DNA would occur and no information would be gained. The requirement for synthesis by DNA polymerase has been lost. If complete replacement of dATP with ddATP were made, then the first time a T were encountered in the template strand, DNA polymerase would incorporate ddATP and all synthesis would halt. If however, a mixture of dATP and ddATP were present, then when the first T were encountered in the template, the dATP and ddATP would compete for the active site of DNA polymerase. If dATP is incorporated, synthesis continues to the next nucleotide and if ddTAP is incorporated synthesis halts for that one strand of DNA. Thus in a population of template strands, a fragment of DNA starting at the primer and ending at each T would be generated with the length of the fragment in nucleotide units defines the location of the T in the template strand.  The origin of replication has been described as a specific DNA sequence to which initiator protein (DnaA) binds and initiates the process of creating the open complex for synthesis. A bp or base pair is the unit of length of DNA measured in single nucleotides or hydrogen bonded base pairs along the polymer chain.  What if DNA polymerase makes a mistake? The Challenge: DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA at rates up to 500 bp/sec. The consequences of these errors will be apparent as we move toward the discussion of DNA transcription and RNA Translation. DNA polymerases are members of a very interesting family of enzymes because of the multi functional nature of their activity. As has been discussed previously, they are capable of synthesizing DNA given the appropriate substrate. They have their own activity to remove RNA and/or DNA in front of the synthesis as described on the lagging strand of the replication fork. In addition to editing during synthesis, there is also monitoring of the DNA for missed errors resulting from replication and for post-replication damage to the DNA. In each of these cases the process involves cutting one of the strands of the DNA specifically creating a condition by which a DNA polymerase can replace the error or damaged DNA followed by ligation of the nicked DNA using DNA ligase. Having explored the requirements for DNA polymerase, it is clear that the prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes fail the first requirement of a single stranded sequence of DNA. Therefore to initiate DNA replication it is necessary to create the conditions that will allow DNA polymerase to carry out DNA synthesis.  This process of DNA replication continues until the entire sequence of DNA is synthesized. Once the appropriate structural requirements for the synthesis of DNA are met, DNA synthesis occurs continuously in a unidirection process from 5’ to 3’ along the template. The following animation demonstrates the building of a complementary strand using the components required by DNA polymerase. This process can take place wherever the initial conditions for operation of DNA polymerase exist. DNA Polymerase Functions DNA Synthesis Requirements DNA Synthesis on Leading and Lagging Strands  First the DNA must be opened by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs and unwinding the DNA. This is initiated by a protein called the initiator protein or DnaA that recognizes a specific DNA sequence called the origin of replication, binds to the sequence and opens up the sequence to create a replication bubble (open complex). An enzyme called a helicase binds to the open complex and extends the melted region of the double stranded DNA to further open the replication bubble. There now exists a single stranded segment of DNA exposed on both chains of the DNA double helix.  With formation of an open complex, one of the requirements for DNA polymerase is satisfied: single stranded DNA is generated. At either end of the open complex where the single stranded and double stranded DNA meet, a structure referred to as the replication fork exists. To allow the binding of DNA polymerase, a second requirement must be met for the structure of the substrate. An enzyme called Primase synthesizes a short (approximately 10 nucleotides), complementary RNA primer on each strand of the DNA in a 5’ to 3’ unidirectional fashion. This complex of DNA and protein at the replication fork is referred to as the replisome.  The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase have been satisfied and synthesis begins. Helicase continues to melt the DNA in front of DNA polymerase.  As single stranded DNA is generated between the ‘back’ of the RNA primer on one strand and the opening replication fork, a new segment of RNA primer is laid down near the opening fork and DNA polymerase synthesizes a new complementary strand of DNA from the primer toward 5’ end of the existing primer and stops. This segment of DNA that is not connected to the next segment is referred to as an Okazaki Fragment. Synthesis on this lagging strand is said to be discontinuous since it is generated in uniform lengths of DNA starting from one primer and stopping before the next RNA primer. Synthesis on the opposite strand is a continuous uninterrupted process starting from the initial primer and continuing as long as the DNA continues to open up at the replication fork. The following animation depicts the complete process of DNA replication. To accomplish this mending of the DNA, a separate DNA polymerase binds to the ‘nick’ left in the DNA between the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA and the 5’ end of the RNA primer. The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase are met even though there is no apparent single stranded DNA present. The DNA polymerase removes the RNA primer and a few nucleotides of DNA in front of it while simultaneously synthesizing DNA on the 3’ end of the existing DNA. When only DNA is present, the DNA polymerase releases from the DNA leaving a nick in the DNA between two DNA segments. DNA polymerase does not have a function to join the two ends of the DNA together and thus a separate enzyme, DNA Ligase, recognizes the nick in the DNA and links the 3’ end of the one segment to the 5’ end of the next segment. Much of our DNA contains a number of short DNA segments that are repeated over and over again at different locations in our genome. If the two DNA samples show a different number of repeats, then the samples must have come from two different individuals. If two DNA samples show the same number of repeats at one location, then there is a chance that the two DNA samples came from the same individual. This is not a very reliable indication that the DNA samples came from the same individual, since a significant fraction of people can have the same number of tandem repeats at any one location in the chromosome. If any of the 13 locations differ in the number of repeats, the two DNA samples came from different individuals. However, if all 13 agree, there is a greater than 99.99 percent probability that the two DNA samples came from the same individual. There is still a 0.01 percent chance that the DNA came from two different people who just happened to have the same number of tandem repeats at each of the 13 different locations. You use PCR to amplify a region of tandem repeats in each DNA sample. If there are more tandem repeats present in a DNA molecule, then the PCR product will be larger. For instance, if Bob has seven repeats and Joe has only two, the PCR product from Bob’s DNA will be larger than the PCR product from Joe’s DNA. In this technique, DNA is placed in an electric field, and the DNA will move toward the positive electrode due to the negative charge on the DNA. The DNA is forced to move through a crosslinked gel material. Because smaller DNA molecules can move faster through the gel, this technique separates DNA molecules by size. The distance of the DNA from the top of the gel is directly related to the size of the DNA, and therefore the number of tandem repeat. DNA was obtained both from this woman and from a preserved blood sample belonging to the Czar (from a bloodstained shirt left over from an assassination attempt in Japan). PCR was used to amplify tandem repeats in two regions of the chromosome for both DNA samples, and the results are shown on the following gel. The genetic information of an organism is stored in DNA molecules. What component or feature of DNA can contain this information? It has to come from the nitrogen bases, because, as you already know, the backbone of all DNA molecules is the same. But there are only four bases found in DNA : G, A, C, and T. The sequence of these four bases can provide all the instructions needed to build any living organism. The DNA alphabet can encode very complex instructions using just four letters, though the messages end up being really long. The human genome (all the DNA of an organism) consists of around three billion nucleotides divided up between 23 DNA molecules, or chromosomes. In order for DNA to function effectively at storing information, two key processes are required. First, information stored in the DNA molecule must be copied, with minimal errors, every time a cell divides. Second, the information stored in the DNA molecule must be translated, or expressed. Both copying and reading the information stored in DNA relies on base pairing between two nucleic acid polymer strands. More specifically, A pairs with T and C pairs with G. As we discuss the function of DNA in subsequent sections, keep in mind that there is a chemical reason for specific pairing of bases. To illustrate the connection between information in DNA and an observable characteristic of an organism, let’s consider a gene that provides the instructions for building the hormone insulin. On the organismal level of organization, this molecular event (change of DNA sequence) can lead to a disease state — in this case, diabetes. The order of nucleotides in a gene (in DNA) is the key to how information is stored. In DNA, the information is stored in units of 3 letters. This should help you to see how information can be stored in the linear order of nucleotides in DNA. DNA. How does information contained in DNA affect your height? One possible explanation is that your DNA contains a gene encoding a protein called growth hormone. In this module, you will learn about how genetic information is stored in DNA and copied for the next generation. You will also look at a practical application of the process of DNA replication called the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). DNA. How does information contained in DNA affect your height? One possible explanation is that your DNA contains a gene encoding a protein called growth hormone. In this module, you will learn about how genetic information is stored in DNA and copied for the next generation. You will also look at a practical application of the process of DNA replication called the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Learn about the researchers and experiments that lead to the discovery of DNA in this activity. You may remember from the movie Jurassic Park how the DNA of a dinosaur was recreated from a tiny amount of blood from a mosquito trapped in amber. While (so far) this is not possible in real life, the idea is based on one of the most useful tools for the manipulation of DNA: the polymerase chain reaction, or PCR. PCR uses repeated cycles of DNA polymerase activity to amplify, or make many copies of, a small segment of DNA known as the target DNA. The target DNA resides within a larger DNA molecule that acts as a template. The amplified DNA, or PCR product, can also serve as a template, leading to a “chain reaction” that doubles the amount of PCR product after each cycle. Consequently, PCR can be used to amplify small amounts of DNA from forensic samples or historical artifacts. When scientists have a larger sample of DNA, they can determine the base sequence of the sample and use the data to compare the DNA sequences of different individuals. PCR is essentially DNA replication, and just like DNA replication, PCR relies on the enzyme DNA polymerase. Because DNA polymerase requires a primer before it can start building a new strand of DNA, this is the first thing scientists must find (or design). These primers will provide a starting point for the DNA polymerase. In DNA replication, the primers are made of RNA nucleotides. In PCR, the primers are short DNA molecules consisting of a specific sequence that flanks the right and left ends of the target DNA sequence. The PCR product will contain the DNA sequences of the primers and the DNA between the primers. Step 1: The DNA template and primers must be converted to single-strand DNA. In DNA replication, DNA is separated by helicase. In the lab, we can accomplish the same thing by heating the DNA to 98oC (almost boiling temperature). Step 2: In order for the DNA to be copied, the primers must bind. Step 3: In step 3, the temperature is raised to ~78°C, which activates DNA polymerase and stimulates copying of the DNA. The polymerase begins at the primer and copies the DNA to the end of the template. At the end of each cycle, the sample contains double the amount of DNA template. You might wonder how the DNA polymerase, as a protein, can resist such a high temperature. In fact, the DNA polymerases used for PCR are derived from organisms that can live at extremely high temperatures. The most common DNA polymerase used for PCR is called Taq, and it is found in the microbe Thermus aquaticus, which was first discovered in the Lower Geyser Basin at Yellowstone National Park. Which of the following statements apply to DNA replication, PCR, or both? Before a cell can divide, it must first make a copy or replica of its DNA through a process called DNA replication. This process of DNA replication takes place in the nucleus of the cell in eukaryotes, where the DNA molecule is found. Think about this: it is critical that the copies of the DNA are exactly like the original, so the daughter cells are identical to the parent cells. There may be changes to DNA sequence by mutations (as you will see in another section), and meiosis introduces some genetic variability when gametes are produced. But for unicellular organisms or for somatic cells, DNA replication is a process that requires high fidelity. The process of DNA replication is catalyzed by a type of enzyme called DNA polymerase (poly meaning many, mer meaning pieces, and ase meaning enzyme; so an enzyme that attaches many pieces of DNA). Observe the figure below: the double helix of the original DNA molecule separates (blue) and new strands are made to match the separated strands. The result will be two DNA molecules, each containing an old and a new strand. Therefore, DNA replication is called semiconservative. DNA replication relies on the double-stranded nature of the molecule. One double stranded DNA molecule, when replicated, will become two double-stranded molecules, each containing one original strand and one newly synthesized strand. You remember that the two strands of DNA run antiparallel: one from the 5’ to the 3’, and the other from the 3’ to the 5’. The synthesis of the new DNA strand can only happen in one direction: from the 5’ to the 3’ end. In other words, the new bases are always added to the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA strand. In fact, DNA polymerase needs an “anchor” to start adding nucleotides: a short sequence of DNA or RNA that is complementary to the template strand will work to provide a free 3’ end. How does DNA polymerase know in what order to add nucleotides? Specific base pairing in DNA is the key to copying the DNA: if you know the sequence of one strand, you can use base pairing rules to build the other strand. Now that you understand the basics of DNA replication, we can add a bit of complexity. The two strands of DNA have to be temporarily separated from each other; this job is done by a special enzyme, helicase, that helps unwind and separate the DNA helices. Another issue is that the DNA polymerase only works in one direction along the strand (5’ to 3’), but the double-stranded DNA has two strands oriented in opposite directions. Short fragments of RNA are used as primers for the DNA polymerase. Before a cell can divide, it must first make a copy or replica of its DNA through a process called DNA replication. This process of DNA replication takes place in the nucleus of the cell in eukaryotes, where the DNA molecule is found. Now that you understand the basics of DNA replication, we can add a bit of complexity. The two strands of DNA have to be temporarily separated from each other; this job is done by a special enzyme, helicase, that helps unwind and separate the DNA helices. Another issue is that the DNA polymerase only works in one direction along the strand (5’ to 3’), but the double-stranded DNA has two strands oriented in opposite directions. Short fragments of RNA are used as primers for the DNA polymerase. Think about this: it is critical that the copies of the DNA are exactly like the original, so the daughter cells are identical to the parent cells. There may be changes to DNA sequence by mutations (as you will see in another section), and meiosis introduces some genetic variability when gametes are produced. But for unicellular organisms or for somatic cells, DNA replication is a process that requires high fidelity. The process of DNA replication is catalyzed by a type of enzyme called DNA polymerase (poly meaning many, mer meaning pieces, and ase meaning enzyme; so an enzyme that attaches many pieces of DNA). Observe the figure below: the double helix of the original DNA molecule separates (blue) and new strands are made to match the separated strands. The result will be two DNA molecules, each containing an old and a new strand. Therefore, DNA replication is called semiconservative. Biological organisms have been shown to replicate their DNA by semi-conservative synthesis. The “Learn More…” activity that follows illustrates the Meselson-Stahl experiment that was performed to prove the mechanism for DNA replication within biological systems. Meselson and Stah conducted experiments with E. coli cells to determmine how DNA replication occurs. The image below shows the data from the Meselson and Stahl experiment that proved that DNA replication is semi-conservative. If DNA replication were conservative instead of semi-conservative, which of the following images would you expect to represent the data? DNA replication relies on the double-stranded nature of the molecule. One double stranded DNA molecule, when replicated, will become two double-stranded molecules, each containing one original strand and one newly synthesized strand. You remember that the two strands of DNA run antiparallel: one from the 5’ to the 3’, and the other from the 3’ to the 5’. The synthesis of the new DNA strand can only happen in one direction: from the 5’ to the 3’ end. In other words, the new bases are always added to the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA strand. In fact, DNA polymerase needs an “anchor” to start adding nucleotides: a short sequence of DNA or RNA that is complementary to the template strand will work to provide a free 3’ end. How does DNA polymerase know in what order to add nucleotides? Specific base pairing in DNA is the key to copying the DNA: if you know the sequence of one strand, you can use base pairing rules to build the other strand. DNA replication is essential for the continuity of genetic information throughout generations. Our understanding of DNA replication machinery has opened the door for a variety of advances, including the process of PCR. PCR is used to make many copies of a small segment of DNA, and it can be used to identify individual DNA samples. DNA replication is essential for the continuity of genetic information throughout generations. Our understanding of DNA replication machinery has opened the door for a variety of advances, including the process of PCR. PCR is used to make many copies of a small segment of DNA, and it can be used to identify individual DNA samples.  During both replication and transcription errors can be made in the incorporation of the correct bases during the complementary copying of the DNA. Transfer-RNA (tRNA) was introduced in the section on the structure of DNA and RNA and its production and post-transcriptional modification were briefly described in the previous section. The process of DNA transcription is described as DNA-directed RNA synthesis. This process, which takes place in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, has many similarities with DNA replication. The enzyme to catalyze the process is RNA Polymerase that likewise has some characteristics similar to those of DNA polymerase used in replication but it also has significant differences. RNA polymerase is an example of a quaternary structure composed of a core protein for the synthesis the complementary RNA strand and a subunit, the Sigma subunit, that first binds to the promoter region of the Operon and creates an open complex by unwinding the double stranded DNA. In this module you learned about the role of DNA as the molecule that stores genetic information. Any damage to the DNA molecule can have serious consequences for the cell. There are many different cellular mechanisms to repair DNA damage or to stop a cell with errors in its DNA from dividing. The BRCA genes code for proteins involved in detecting and repairing double strand breaks in the DNA molecule. If there is a defect in either of the genes BRCA1 or BRCA2, that will result in increased chances of DNA errors, which ultimately can increase the likelihood of cancer. In this module you learned about the role of DNA as the molecule that stores genetic information. Any damage to the DNA molecule can have serious consequences for the cell. There are many different cellular mechanisms to repair DNA damage or to stop a cell with errors in its DNA from dividing. The BRCA genes code for proteins involved in detecting and repairing double strand breaks in the DNA molecule. If there is a defect in either of the genes BRCA1 or BRCA2, that will result in increased chances of DNA errors, which ultimately can increase the likelihood of cancer. In eukaryotic cells, DNA stores the genetic information, which is passed from generation to generation through the process of DNA replication. During replication, the whole sequence of DNA is copied. In order for the information stored in DNA to be used by a living cell, the information must be expressed (gene expression). First, DNA is transcribed into one form of RNA called messenger RNA, or mRNA, through the process of transcription; then mRNA can be translated into an amino acid sequence forming a protein through the process of translation. DNA also encodes two other RNA molecules, transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). DNA and RNA are considered the same chemical “language” because their monomers are nucleotides. In fact, certain viruses (among them the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV) have an enzyme capable of making DNA using RNA as a template. However, you will recall that viruses are not cells, so it is safe to say that cells use DNA as their genetic material, and the flow of information goes as follows: In eukaryotes, DNA and ribosomes reside in separate compartments, so an additional step is required: the transportation of RNA out of the nucleus and into the cytoplasm. In eukaryotic cells, DNA stores the genetic information, which is passed from generation to generation through the process of DNA replication. During replication, the whole sequence of DNA is copied. In order for the information stored in DNA to be used by a living cell, the information must be expressed (gene expression). First, DNA is transcribed into one form of RNA called messenger RNA, or mRNA, through the process of transcription; then mRNA can be translated into an amino acid sequence forming a protein through the process of translation. DNA also encodes two other RNA molecules, transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). DNA and RNA are considered the same chemical “language” because their monomers are nucleotides. In fact, certain viruses (among them the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV) have an enzyme capable of making DNA using RNA as a template. However, you will recall that viruses are not cells, so it is safe to say that cells use DNA as their genetic material, and the flow of information goes as follows: In eukaryotes, DNA and ribosomes reside in separate compartments, so an additional step is required: the transportation of RNA out of the nucleus and into the cytoplasm. In the previous module, you learned how genetic information is stored in DNA and how it is passed in its totality to the next generation through the process of DNA replication. You also read about PCR, a practical application of the DNA synthesis process. Information contained in DNA is organized into genes, and each gene contains instructions for making a functional product: an RNA molecule or a protein. Different cells can contain the same DNA, but they express different genes and produce different proteins according to their function. Nerve cells contain the same DNA, but the hemoglobin gene is not expressed. In this module, we will consider each of these processes in more detail, and we will conclude by looking at how changes in DNA sequence can affect the proteins encoded by DNA. The DNA sequence, Protein sequence, and AA position lines need to be reformatted. Errors during DNA replication can have a much longer lasting effect. If incorrect nucleotides are incorporated into a newly synthesized DNA strand, the error may be passed on to future generations. Some mutations happen due to large scale rearrangements of DNA molecules that involve thousands or millions of nucleotides. Let us consider how different types of mutations affect the proteins encoded by DNA. Next, we apply the classification above to an actual mutation observed in human DNA. Below you are given a sequence in the middle of the DNA template for the normal (wild-type) hemoglobin gene. You are shown the same sequence of template DNA for the mutated, sickle cell, sequence. Errors during DNA replication can have a much longer lasting effect. If incorrect nucleotides are incorporated into a newly synthesized DNA strand, the error may be passed on to future generations. Some mutations happen due to large scale rearrangements of DNA molecules that involve thousands or millions of nucleotides. Let us consider how different types of mutations affect the proteins encoded by DNA. Next, we apply the classification above to an actual mutation observed in human DNA. The central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of information from DNA to protein. You also learned about mutations (changes in the DNA sequence) and how to predict their effects. The central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of information from DNA to protein. You also learned about mutations (changes in the DNA sequence) and how to predict their effects. During gene expression, information stored in DNA is first copied (or transcribed) into RNA in a process called transcription. Only one of the two DNA strands is transcribed, and the order of bases in RNA is determined by the base pairing of the ribonucleotides with the DNA. If the transcribed DNA strand has the sequence: Note that the transcribed RNA has exactly the same sequence as the upper DNA strand, but with T replaced by U. You will recall that originally, the information is stored in DNA, but during transcription, an RNA copy of DNA is made. You will recall that originally, the information is stored in DNA, but during transcription, an RNA copy of DNA is made. This process of change after transcription from DNA to RNA is called post-transcriptional modification. In this module, we will explore the connection between DNA and phenotype on the molecular level. We will compare prokaryotic and eukaryotic genes and genomes, and we will look at how DNA is packaged into chromosomes with the help of specialized proteins. Remember that a gene is information residing in the order of bases in a DNA molecule. Next, we will consider DNA regions required for transcription. Genes include regulatory regions at the beginning and the end of the transcribed DNA: Manipulation of DNA has opened an incredible array of possibilities for humanity. Manipulation of DNA has opened an incredible array of possibilities for humanity. Remember that a gene is information residing in the order of bases in a DNA molecule. Next, we will consider DNA regions required for transcription. Genes include regulatory regions at the beginning and the end of the transcribed DNA: Environmental signals can change DNA packaging, which affects gene expression. Environmental mutagens can cause mutations in DNA. Using the central dogma of molecular biology, we can deduce that environment may affect protein function at the level of protein, mRNA, or DNA. Long-term heritable changes can be produced by the environment at the level of DNA. UV light causes single nucleotide changes in DNA. Cumulative DNA damage in somatic cells throughout an organism’s lifetime contributes to the aging process. Heritable changes in gene expression can occur via changes in DNA sequence or in DNA packaging. Heritable changes in DNA packaging do not involve any changes in DNA sequence. You will recall from the previous page that compact packaging of DNA leads to gene silencing (transcriptionally inactive genes). Compact packaging of DNA requires modifications to DNA itself and to histones, which are DNA-binding proteins involved in packaging. DNA modification involves the addition of a methyl group (-CH3) to specific bases on DNA (cytosine methylation), but does not change the sequence of DNA bases. In germ cells, the pattern of DNA methylation can be passed through the gametes to the next generation of offspring. One of the two X chromosomes in females is inactivated by epigenetic mechanisms (DNA methylation and histone modifications). The prokaryotic genome resides on a circular piece of double-stranded DNA; there is no membrane to separate DNA from the rest of the cell. In order to condense the DNA into a smaller size, the DNA is supercoiled. In supercoiled DNA, the double helix of the DNA contains additional turns beyond the normal one turn per 10 base pairs. These additional twists introduce strain into the DNA that is relieved by large-scale twists in the entire DNA molecule, or supercoils. Many bacteria contain smaller, circular DNA molecules, called plasmids, in addition to the large DNA molecule that is their chromosome. Plasmids can replicate independently of the large DNA and can be transferred to other cells. Instead of purifying protein from human cells, scientists can combine coding DNA from the human genome with bacterial regulatory DNA regions on a plasmid, and introduce the plasmid carrying human gene into the bacteria. Combining DNA from different organisms is called recombinant DNA technology. A eukaryotic genome resides on multiple linear DNA molecules in the nucleus. Each of these DNA molecules is called a chromosome. Eukaryotic cells also contain DNA in mitochondria and chloroplasts; mitochondrial and chloroplast genomes are circular like those of bacteria, and are typically considered separately from eukaryotic genomes. In general, eukaryotic genomes are much larger than prokaryotic genomes, and they contain a lot more noncoding DNA. This presents a problem of packaging for eukaryotic -cells: how are they to fit very large DNA into a small compartment? Although eukaryotic DNA is supercoiled, this isn’t enough to solve the packaging problem. Eukaryotic cells use special proteins (histones) to wind up DNA and fold it into nucleosomes, which are compact structures. DNA can be transcribed in this state. Further packaging of DNA into highly compact fibers makes genes inaccessible for transcription, leading to gene silencing. The repressor protein will bind to the regulatory region at a DNA sequence. When the repressor is bound to the DNA, RNA polymerase cannot transcribe the structural genes because it is blocked by the repressor protein bound on the DNA; under these conditions, none of the enzymes required for the pathway is produced. The compound binds to the repressor protein and causes the repressor either to bind to the DNA (this is called positive control), turning off transcription, or to be released from the operator site on the DNA (this is called negative control), turning on transcription. In bacteria, groups of proteins that are expressed together to execute the same biochemical pathways, are often encoded together in a region of DNA called an operon. Throughout the genetics unit, we have been using the terms gene, allele, and DNA, along with several other related terms. The macromolecule that carries genetic information is DNA, which in the eukaryotic cell binds specialized proteins to create compact structures called chromosomes. The genome includes genes and noncoding DNA sequences. The human genome, for example, contains the DNA sequence (information) of 22 autosomal chromosomes, as well as the two sex chromosomes X and Y. The information is contained in the order of bases in the DNA. Any change in the DNA of an organism is called a mutation. Mutations include large deletions and rearrangements in the DNA, but they can also be changes in a single base. In these conditions, the expression plasmid is mixed with bacterial cells, allowing some of the cells to take up one circular DNA molecule. The origin of replication on the expression plasmid will cause the bacteria to replicate the plasmid along with its own chromosomal DNA. Lactose would be added to the culture to cause the lac repressor to come off the DNA. The expression plasmid is a large closed circular piece of DNA. Various DNA sequences on the expression plasmid are required for maintenance of the plasmid in the cells. The plasmid also contains DNA sequences (promoter for RNA polymerase, lac operator) that are required for the production of the mRNA that encodes HuGH. This gene is inserted in the correct location in a closed circular piece of DNA (an expression plasmid) by use of restriction sites. The ability to manipulate DNA has led to dramatic changes in medicine, agriculture, and many other aspects of society. The step of inserting our synthetic DNA into the plasmid use two very important enzymes, restriction enzymes and DNA ligase. Restriction endonucleases are enzymes that recognize specific DNA sequences, such as GAATTC, and cut both strands of the DNA within these sequences. Of course, the bacteria shouldn’t digest their own DNA. Consequently, they have companion enzymes called DNA methylases, which add methyl groups to the bacterial DNA, protecting it from digestion. There are hundreds of different restriction enzymes, each of which recognizes and cleaves a different DNA sequence or “restriction site”. The DNA sequence that they recognize is shown on the left and the products of the digestion are shown on the right. The DNA sequences that are recognized by restriction endonucleases have a unique property in that the sequence on the top strand is identical to the sequence on the bottom strand, i.e. If the restriction enzyme does not cut at the center of its recognition sequence the cleavage products will contain short single-stranded segments of DNA. These are often called “sticky-ends” because they can stick to other DNA molecules that have complementary sticky ends. These sticky ends can “stick” to complementary single-stranded DNA sequences using normal DNA basepairing (A-T, G-C). The presence of sticky ends on DNA fragments makes it easy to join DNA fragments. DNA ligases can be used to rejoin DNA after it has been cut with the restriction enzyme. Since the sticky ends hold the two ends close together it is easy for DNA ligase to join the fragments, reforming the phosphodiester bonds on both strands. Although most of the time DNA fragments are joined using sticky ends, it is possible to join fragments that are blunt ended. Restriction endonucleases and DNA ligase are used to insert the synthetic gene into the correct location in the expression plasmid, just after the ribosome binding site. The expression plasmid and the synthetic fragment would be cut with the restriction enzymes, mixed, and then treated with DNA ligase to re-seal the phosphodiester backbone: An expression plasmid is a closed circular molecule of DNA that has several unique properties associated with its DNA sequences. First, the expression plasmid contains a section of DNA that is an origin of replication. The expression plasmid must also contain a section of DNA that encodes a protein that will confer antibiotic resistance on the bacterial cells that contain the plasmid. Sequences that allow the insertion of the synthetic DNA into the plasmid. These are short DNA sequences that are recognized by restriction endonucleases, in the case of this plasmid they are the EcoR1 and BamH1 sites. Restriction endonucleases cut the DNA at these sequences, allowing the insertion of the synthetic gene between the sites. Sequences involved in transcribing the DNA to mRNA. The expression plasmid must contain a DNA sequence that allows a repressor protein to bind. The lac repressor binds to a specific DNA sequence called the lac operator. The addition of an inducer molecule, such as lactose, will cause the repressor to fall off of the DNA, allowing RNA polymerase to produce mRNA. It is important that the operator sequence is placed between the promoter and the DNA that encodes the mRNA so that mRNA cannot be made unless an inducer is added. Sequences involved in translating the mRNA to Protein The expression plasmid must have a DNA sequence that will encode a ribosome binding site on the mRNA. The synthetic DNA is inserted into an expression plasmid, using a combination of restriction endonucleases and DNA ligase. The expression plasmid contains DNA segments that are responsible for replication of the plasmid and a gene that confers antibiotic resistance to bacteria. The process above can be used to produce human insulin or virtually any other protein in bacteria, simply by changing the DNA sequence of the synthetic gene. The process above can be used to produce human insulin or virtually any other protein in bacteria, simply by changing the DNA sequence of the synthetic gene. In this method, the first base of our DNA sequence is attached to a small glass bead. The next base is then added to the first, and so on, until the sequence is completed at which point the DNA is released from the glass bead. Any desired DNA sequence can be generated by this method. A permanent, irreversible, and heritable change in DNA. No religious tradition revealed the existence and function of DNA to humans: that was the fruit of scientific study and reasoning. DNA analysis also pinpoints the genetic mutations that produce new adaptive traits in organisms. HIV is an interesting virus in that it uses RNA to encode its genetic material instead of DNA like most viruses. Remember from the gene expression module that a mutation is a permanent, irreversible, and heritable change in DNA. The principles of evolution are based in genes; therefore, it is important that we remember that genes are segments of DNA that have "meaning." Genes are sequences of DNA that encode particular RNA and protein molecules, which work together to give a cell and an organism its characteristics and functions, whether they be physical, chemical, or behavioral. For example, all cells contain DNA. DNA sequences are detailed, complex, and contain a great deal of information. In a court of law, DNA evidence can be used to tie a suspect to a crime scene sample: it is extremely unlikely that two long DNA sequences would show an exact match unless they came from the same source. Unlike many physical or behavioral traits, DNA sequences are an excellent source of data on relationships. By looking at DNA, biologists have a way to directly and objectively compare inherited information. They can sometimes even include DNA sequence data extracted from fossils! DNA sequences are a particularly valuable and rich source of data that help in building such trees. When first formed, all cells include DNA and other macromolecules and are organized to grow, reproduce, and respond to changes in the external environment. the complete DNA sequence of one set of chromosomes from an organism. DNA is composed of two strands of nucleotides, which are intertwined in a double helix. An enzyme that will bind to DNA fragments held together by sticky ends and reform the phosphodiester bond between the two DNA fragments. Enzyme involved in DNA replication, recognizes the primer and adds nucleotides to the 3’ end of the primer. Synthesis of a new DNA double helix. It is the process by which a cell, when dividing, makes a copy of its DNA by an enzyme-catalyzed reaction. Each strand in the existing double helix is used as a template strand to build a new DNA strand. Epigenetics is the study of heritable changes in gene expression or cellular phenotype that are not the result of changes in the underlying DNA sequence (i.e., mutations) but rather through different mechanisms (e.g., DNA methylation or histone remodeling). A circular double stranded DNA molecule that contains all of the necessary DNA sequences to allow for maintenance of the plasmid as well as the production of mRNA from genes inserted into the plasmid.  A segment of DNA that carries specific information, ultimately coding for a protein, which determines certain traits in an organism. It is a segment of DNA with instructions for protein synthesis. The complete DNA sequence of one set of chromosomes from an organism. Interphase consists of the G1 (chromosomes condense), S (DNA duplicates), and G2 (DNA integritiy checked and repaired) phases of the cell cycle. A segment of DNA that is recognized by the lac repressor protein. A protein, produced by the lacI gene, that binds to the lac repressor DNA sequence, regulating the transcription of genes required for lactose metabolism. A mitochondrion contains its own DNA as a single circular chromosome. Changes to the DNA nucleotide sequence. A permanent, irreversible, and heritable change in DNA. The DNA structure consist of four bases: A, C, G, and T. The RNA molecule contains the bases: A, C, G, and U. DNA and RNA are both nucleic acids. A specific region in the cytoplasm of a prokaryotic cell where genetic material (DNA) is stored. A packaging unit of DNA in a eukaryotic cell consisting of DNA wound around a protein core composed of eight histone molecules. Molecules that make up the individual structural sub-units of the nucleic acids RNA and DNA. A sequence of DNA that serves as a binding site for proteins involved in initiating DNA replication. The sequence of DNA to which RNA polymerase binds. Protein that binds to DNA near promoter sites, reducing the amount of mRNA that is generated from that promoter, and consequently the amount of protein that is translated from the mRNA. The ability of the repressor to bind to DNA is often controlled by small molecules, i.e. the lac repressor is released from DNA in the presence of lactose. An enzyme that recognizes and cleaves a specific DNA sequence. Enzyme involved in transcription, build an RNA strand using DNA as a template. A single stranded end on DNA. A sequence of DNA at the end of the mRNA that signals the termination of transcription by RNA polymerase. Change in genotype and phenotype resulting from assimilation of outside DNA. Reading the DNA and encoding an mRNA molecule with information to be taken to protein-synthesizing regions of the cell. It is the process through which a complementary copy of protein-coding mRNA is synthesized, using one strand of DNA as a template. The new RNA strand is identical to the complement of the single strand of DNA from which it was transcribed except that the base thymine (T) in the DNA strand is replaced by the base uracil (U) in the RNA strand. When first formed, all cells include DNA and other macromolecules and are organized to grow, reproduce, and respond to changes in the external environment. A chloroplast contains its own DNA as a single circular chromosome. A combination of DNA and proteins that constitutes chromosomes. Tightly coiled form of the DNA-protein complex. the complete DNA sequence of one set of chromosomes from an organism. the complete DNA sequence of one set of chromosomes from an organism.

14. [u'structural', u'quaternary structure', u'new structures']
  Denaturation means that the protein loses the secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure required for function. As discussed earlier, the protein tertiary structure is stabilized by non-covalent bonding. In some cases, the beaking of a single hydrogen bond can alter the structure of the enzyme sufficiently to cause the loss of function (i.e. Denaturation means that the protein loses the secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure required for function. As discussed earlier, the protein tertiary structure is stabilized by non-covalent bonding. In some cases, the beaking of a single hydrogen bond can alter the structure of the enzyme sufficiently to cause the loss of function (i.e. It is difficult to predict how tightly a ligand will bind to a protein or to predict the structure of ligands that will bind tightly a binding pocket of a known protein. In the figure below, the estrogen receptor is depicted with its secondary structure highlighted. The estrogen receptor represents a quaternary structure composed of a dimer of two protein chains shown as yellow and purple in the figure. Denaturation means that the protein loses the secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure required for function. Elements are characterized by their atomic structure. While the subatomic structure of the atom is a major topic of interest in chemistry, physics and biophysics, the basic structure described below provides sufficient information for the construction of molecules in the context of this course. Elements are characterized by their atomic structure. While the subatomic structure of the atom is a major topic of interest in chemistry, physics and biophysics, the basic structure described below provides sufficient information for the construction of molecules in the context of this course. Atomic mass, the sum of the number of protons and neutrons in the atomic structure, is a particularly useful measure of each element. Formula gives the chemical formula, Molecular indicates how the atoms are bonded together, 2D-Structural provides some information about the three dimensional structure using a two-dimensional drawing. Compare the structure of methanol to formaldhyde in the Jmol below. The configuration of atoms in the left-hand structure causes polarized light to be rotated to the right and is therefore the D form. Is the right 3D structure the D form or the L form of glyceraldehyde? As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Computer algorithms are currently used to predict water solubility based on structure. For our purposes, we will balance the ratio of polar and non-polar elements in a structure to estimate the chemical nature of any compound we are going to study. The shared electrons form a partial (1/2) double bond between each atom in the ring structure. Compare the structure of methanol to formaldhyde in the Jmol below. The configuration of atoms in the left-hand structure causes polarized light to be rotated to the right and is therefore the D form. Is the right 3D structure the D form or the L form of glyceraldehyde? As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Computer algorithms are currently used to predict water solubility based on structure. For our purposes, we will balance the ratio of polar and non-polar elements in a structure to estimate the chemical nature of any compound we are going to study. The shared electrons form a partial (1/2) double bond between each atom in the ring structure. The FUNCTIONAL GROUPS column shows the names and chemical structure of important functional groups in biology. The FUNCTIONAL GROUPS column shows the names and chemical structure of important functional groups in biology. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. But before we examine the structure of these compounds, let us look at some of the basic uses/functions of the carbohydrates.  The second function for the carbohydrates is structure. In this case, structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has, but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated. But before we examine the structure of these compounds, let us look at some of the basic uses/functions of the carbohydrates.  The second function for the carbohydrates is structure. In this case, structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has, but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated.  In this section, we will discuss the structure of sugars, and how they are organized into larger molecules called carbohydrates.  Starting with the hemiacetal (closed ring) structure, the unique, newly created, asymmetric center has a special name: the anomeric carbon. In the structure of glucose given below, the anomeric carbon, which is created by forming the six member (pyranose) hemiacetal structure, is highlighted. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to that carbon are unique . The covalent bond formed between the anomeric carbon and a hydroxyl group is called a glycosidic bond and the final structure is referred to as an acetal. Each resulting disaccharide is a different structure. The stability of the glycosidic bond contributes to the effective use of the polysaccharides in maintaining structure.  Now we will build larger aldoses by adding one carbon at a time to the structure.  Add another carbon to the structure given above. This aldose makes up the backbone structure of RNA and a derivative of it, 2-deoxyribose, makes up the backbone of DNA. The linear structure of glucose is shown below, along with ribose. It should always be remembered that while the structure on the right would appear to represent carbon as having planar bonding, in fact each of the carbons has a tetrahedral bonding structure.  Now let’s represent the ribose structure as it is actually found in solution. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to the anomeric carbon are unique, making it a chiral center. In all of these cases the structure is still ribose. The two new structures created by the ring closure create two additional conformations of the number one carbon: alpha with the hydroxyl on the right of the stick structure or pointing down in the ring representation, and beta with the hydroxyl on the left of the stick structure and pointing up in the ring structure. It should also be noted that as represented in the drawing these structures are all in equilibrium with each other and the alpha structure can be converted to the beta structure and visa versa as long as each structure can be converted to the free aldehyde structure.  In the same way that the larger aldoses were generated, single carbons can be added to the structure of the dihydroxyacetone and an expansive tree of structures result. Applying the principle that compounds will spontaneously form stable ring structures, and using a mechanism similar to that employed for the aldoses, fructose will spontaneously form a five-member ring structure. These structures are depicted below and are in equilibrium with each other through the free ketone structure.  Examine the glyceraldehyde structure given above and determine which of the carbons has a unique composition of four bonding partners. Based on the fact that this chiral carbon has tetrahedral bonding structure, it can form structural enantiomers. For glyceraldehyde, where A is an aldehyde, B is a hydrogen and X is the hydroxymethyl (CH2OH) group, the structure on the left would be referred to as D-glyceraldehyde and the structure on the right would be referred to as L-glyceraldehyde based on the orientation of the hydroxyl functional group. All three are made of the same building block (subunit or monomer) – glucose, but they are different in structure and function.  Starch: The structure of starch has two components: amylose and amylopectin. Amylopectin has the same backbone polymer structure as amylose, but also contains branches from the backbone linked by alpha -1,6 glycosidic bonds every 20-30 glucose subunits along the amylose backbone. This gives rise to a highly branched structure used in the storage of glucose in plants. This creates a much denser, more highly packed structure used for storage of glucose in mammalian cells. This difference in configuration of glycosidic bond leads to differences in structure and in function. Beta-1,4 linkage results in the linear and extended shape of the polymer structure, which allows the strands of cellulose to align and form a hydrogen-bonding network between the hydroxyls on the individual glucose subunits. The structural difference between the beta-1,4 link in cellulose and the alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond in amylose is sufficient to require different enzymes to break (hydrolyze) the bonds separating the glucose subunits in each structure. Instructions: The right hand Jmol shows the 3D structure, with one of the monosaccharides highlighted. When answering the questions below the Jmol, keep in mind that the orientation of the two rings in the 3D structure may differ from the 2D line drawing on the left. The structure is described as glucose-alpha,beta 1,2-fructose. In this structure it is instructive to identify the anomeric carbon on the glucose and the fructose molecules since they are both involved in the formation of the glycosidic bond. The structure is a homo-dimer made up of two molecules of glucose linked by an alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond. All three are made of the same building block (subunit or monomer) – glucose, but they are different in structure and function.  Starch: The structure of starch has two components: amylose and amylopectin. Amylopectin has the same backbone polymer structure as amylose, but also contains branches from the backbone linked by alpha -1,6 glycosidic bonds every 20-30 glucose subunits along the amylose backbone. This gives rise to a highly branched structure used in the storage of glucose in plants. This creates a much denser, more highly packed structure used for storage of glucose in mammalian cells. This difference in configuration of glycosidic bond leads to differences in structure and in function. Beta-1,4 linkage results in the linear and extended shape of the polymer structure, which allows the strands of cellulose to align and form a hydrogen-bonding network between the hydroxyls on the individual glucose subunits. The structural difference between the beta-1,4 link in cellulose and the alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond in amylose is sufficient to require different enzymes to break (hydrolyze) the bonds separating the glucose subunits in each structure. Instructions: The right hand Jmol shows the 3D structure, with one of the monosaccharides highlighted. When answering the questions below the Jmol, keep in mind that the orientation of the two rings in the 3D structure may differ from the 2D line drawing on the left. The structure is described as glucose-alpha,beta 1,2-fructose. In this structure it is instructive to identify the anomeric carbon on the glucose and the fructose molecules since they are both involved in the formation of the glycosidic bond. The structure is a homo-dimer made up of two molecules of glucose linked by an alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond. As second function for the carbohydrates is that of structure. In this case structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide a scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. Clicking on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid will present the 3D structure in the Jmol window on the right (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool). Initially a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. Clicking on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid will present the 3D structure in the Jmol window on the right (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool). Initially a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right.  Quaternary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of all of the different poly-peptide chains that comprise the functional molecule. Clicking on the button will show you the complete quaternary structure of hemoglobin. Of course, the quaternary structure is also built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can view by clicking herescript('select all;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent') This basic level of protein structure is called it's primary structure and derives from the formation of peptide bonds between the individual amino acids. The higher order structure is determined by the amino acids in the primary structure. The function of a protein is determined by its higher order structure. The higher order stages of secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure of the estrogen receptor are shown in the movie below. Although the exact structure of the protein was determined using biophysical methods employing sophisticated instruments and calculations, the ability to predict the three dimensional structure (tertiary structure) of a protein de novo is not yet possible. It is possible to make excellent predictions of secondary structure from primary structure and the use of measured constraints on structure based on the structure of the peptide bond and characteristics of individual amino acids is making it possible to approach predictive methods. The stages or levels of protein structure are displayed here: Hemoglobin looks complicated, but we can understand its structure using a hierarchical description of the structure. Clicking on the button will show you the tertiary structure of one of the sub-units of hemoglobin. Of course, the tertiary structure is built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can highlight with a pink ribbon by clicking herescript('set echo off;select *:B;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent') Antibodies represent a different type of quaternary structure because the individual subunits are linked by disulfide bonds. The structure is a dimer of dimers and the basic unit is a large peptide (the heavy chain) bound to a smaller chain (light chain) by disulfide bonds. Two of these heterodimers are joined by disulfide bonds between the heavy chains to form the final tetrameric structure. Antibodies represent a different type of quaternary structure because the individual subunits are linked by disulfide bonds. The structure is a dimer of dimers and the basic unit is a large peptide (the heavy chain) bound to a smaller chain (light chain) by disulfide bonds. Two of these heterodimers are joined by disulfide bonds between the heavy chains to form the final tetrameric structure. After investigating the secondary structure of protein, students wiil be able to: Elements of secondary structure include the -helix, the beta-sheet and the beta-turn. The -helix is the prominent structure seen hemoglobin shown previously. Because of the regular nature of the structure, every - angle pair in an -helix is the same. -helical structure is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between the backbone carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions on the alpha helix. Beta-Sheet The second predominant secondary structure element is the -sheet. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions about the beta-sheet. Use these checkboxes to inspect the aspects of this structure in order to answer the questions to the right: As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Your should explore the Jmol structure to determine which of the following is more important in stabilizing the tertiary structure. Tertiary structure is driven and stabilized by hydrophobic interactions and involves all types of non-covalent bonding. As you will see in the next page, quaternary structure is stabilized primarily by all types of complimentary, non-covalent interactions. Disulfide bonds also form between peptide chains in forming quaternary structure, for example in the structure of antibodies. Use these checkboxes to inspect the aspects of this structure in order to answer the questions to the right: As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Your should explore the Jmol structure to determine which of the following is more important in stabilizing the tertiary structure. Tertiary structure is driven and stabilized by hydrophobic interactions and involves all types of non-covalent bonding. As you will see in the next page, quaternary structure is stabilized primarily by all types of complimentary, non-covalent interactions. Disulfide bonds also form between peptide chains in forming quaternary structure, for example in the structure of antibodies. The lipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane, and its structure creates a semi-permeable membrane. The lipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane, and its structure creates a semi-permeable membrane. Because the double bonds of the unsaturated fatty acids introduce kinks in the hydrocarbon backbone, unsaturated fats will not pack into a regular structure and thus remain fluid at lower temperatures. Thus transport proteins have been classified both by structure and by function. For the purposes of this course, the classification will be that of function though similarities in structure will be observed in the examples chosen. Thus transport proteins have been classified both by structure and by function. For the purposes of this course, the classification will be that of function though similarities in structure will be observed in the examples chosen. In the structure above the X represents the bases that distinguish the units of the backbone from each other in much the same way that the 20 naturally occuring side chains on a common backbone distinguish the units of a polypeptide (protein) structure. The backbone structure of both DNA and RNA shows variability according to the composition of X in the structure given on the previous page. All of the bases have the common structural characteristic that they are planar structures due to the aromatic (alternating double bonds in the rings) structure of the molecules. This feature parallels that previously seen with the phenyl group [Refer to the Functional Groups simulation in the Glossary to review the structure of the phenyl group]. Since the bases are always associated with a sugar in nature, they take on specific names according to their structure. The following link is a video in which Dr. Brown explains the structure of bases. Modern molecular biology is built upon our understanding of the structure and function of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid) and the enzymes and proteins that interact with these structures. The structure of DNA (shown on the left below) is the molecule upon which the Central Dogma of modern molecular biology is based. tRNA folds into a distinct three dimensional structure, as shown in the 3D Jmol image on the right. The intensive efforts to understand the structure of the molecules involved as well as the details of the process have also yielded a set of tools that have led to the sequencing of whole genomes containing the inherited information passed from generation to generation. The following is an interactive simulation that allows you to form hydrogen bonding pairs between the appropriate bases in DNA and RNA that would be allowed in the formation of the double helical structure. The tertiary structure of B-DNA has been described with a number of specific characteristics. The general characteristics found in the B-DNA are still present; however, slight differences in the specific characteristics result in dramatic changes in the overall structure of the helix. The tertiary structure of B-DNA has been described with a number of specific characteristics. The general characteristics found in the B-DNA are still present; however, slight differences in the specific characteristics result in dramatic changes in the overall structure of the helix. The figure below shows the same structure as a duplex of DNA. However, this secondary structure spontaneously forms a double helical coiled structure that is depicted on the right hand side of the figure below. This structure has several distinct features that characterize the dominant structure called B-DNA. Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA Structure. Below is a side view of the B-DNA structure using a space filled model (left) next to a 3D Jmol image that will allow you to highlight each groove and determine which atoms from each basepair project into the groove. The nature of the atoms that are exposed in the grooves of the structure are important for the ability of proteins to recognize specific sequences of DNA. Discrimination of the different sequences must be made by having access to the bases inside the structure since the backbone structure is common to all sequences of DNA This section begins our description of the structure and function of DNA and RNA. The ultimate tertiary structures of RNA and DNA are dependent on both the similarities and differences in the primary structure of each of the polymers. RNA can also exist as an anti-parallel two stranded structure or it can assume more complicated structures, such as the tRNA molecule shown on the previous page. In addition, several of the bases in the structure are chemically modified after the final sequence is generated. As seen in the illustration below, tRNA is produced as a primary transcript in a linear primary structure. Following processing the tRNA folds into the cloverleaf secondary structure. In this structure it is easy to see the 3’ end of the structure with its ACC sequence that is common to all tRNAs. In addition the bottom loop in the structure (the anticodon loop) contains the sequence that is complementary and antiparallel to a sequence on the mRNA. This secondary structure folds to a tertiary structure in the form of an inverted L. The 3’ end is at one end of the structure and is the site that will carry a specific amino acid that corresponds to the sequence of nucleotides in the anticodon at the other end of the molecule. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. These six subunits from a spherical structure where the and subunits alternate. These six subunits from a spherical structure where the and subunits alternate.  The study of matter and its structure, properties, and reactions.  Change in structure and function that occurs in an orderly way as an organism passes through its life cycle.  The capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter.  The smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life. We will revisit two of the themes (Structure Determines Function and Matter and Energy) in the next unit, when we learn more about the basics of chemistry.  Structure determines function. Have you ever played a game of Jenga, where you try to remove one block at a time from a tower structure without causing the entire tower to collapse? Instead, it needs a specialized structure to get rid of a waste gas (carbon dioxide) and take in oxygen gas. This unity of structure and function is also evident when we compare skeletons, kidneys, or hearts among animals. In development, structure and function change in an orderly way as an organism passes through its life cycle. As you already know, a molecule’s shape (or structure) determines its function. Have you ever played a game of Jenga, where you try to remove one block at a time from a tower structure without causing the entire tower to collapse? In this game, each block depends on the other blocks for stability, and if you’re not careful, the removal of a single block can cause the destruction of the entire structure. Biologists describe how organisms are put together (structure) and explain how organisms stay alive, move, grow, reproduce, and do other activities (function). “Structure” is defined in part as the composition of a feature: what it is made of. Second, structure also involves shape: the three-dimensional form of a feature. At the smallest level, the structure of molecules determines their function within cells. Below a few cell types are compared to illustrate how structure relates to function at the next level up - the cellular level. Structure also determines biological function at higher levels of organization. Yet there are many surprising details even in the humble worm’s structure. Biologists describe how organisms are put together (structure) and explain how organisms stay alive, move, grow, reproduce, and do other activities (function). In biological systems, the structure of a cell or body part is tightly linked to its function within the life of the organism. The structure of something is determined by two factors: its three-dimensional shape, and the materials from which it is made. The structure that something takes directly influences its possible functions. At the smallest levels of biological organization, the structure of a molecule determines its function within a cell. In this course, you might investigate the structure of a molecule and then learn what it does. It will help you to remind yourself: the structure and the function of this molecule are connected. At a larger scale, the structure of a cell is directly linked to its function within the body of a multicellular organism. Compare the following images of some different cell types and explore how structure relates to function at the cellular level. Structure also determines function at higher levels of biological organization. Yet there are many surprising details in the worm’s structure. Let’s explore the relationship between structure and function by building a body for a hypothetical creature we’ll call Structo.  Structo is just a blob floating in the ocean, and it needs a structure that will allow it to exchange gases between its blood and the surrounding water. Instead, it needs a specialized structure to help it breathe. After learning some chemistry fundamentals, you will explore the structure and function of cells in Unit Three of this course. After learning some chemistry fundamentals, you will explore the structure and function of cells . They are strung together, or polymerized, in a sequence that codes for the structure of proteins and other biological molecules. The cell is the smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life: it is the smallest and simplest entity that is truly alive. After learning some chemistry fundamentals, you will explore the structure and function of cells . In this unit, we will emphasize the parts of different kinds of cells and how the cell’s structure dictates its function. In this unit, we will emphasize the parts of different kinds of cells and how the cell’s structure dictates its function. Some viruses also have a membrane structure surrounding their genetic information. They are strung together, or polymerized, in a sequence that codes for the structure of proteins and other biological molecules. This course includes a brief introduction to what biology is and some fundamental principles such as an introduction to biological chemistry, basic structure and function of the cell, and essentials of metabolsim. In architecture, a keystone is a single wedge-shaped stone at the top of a stone arch that maintains the integrity of the structure; its removal will cause both sides of the arch to collapse. As you’ll learn in the next unit, hydrogen ions can affect the shape, or structure, of important biological molecules like enzymes and other proteins. As you already know, structure determines function. In particular, an understanding of protein structure helps us see how life takes on such endless variety. Carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids each have distinct properties that emerge due to their chemical structure and formation of large assemblies. You should be able to relate the structure of macromolecules to their function. As you’ll learn in the next unit, hydrogen ions can affect the shape, or structure, of important biological molecules like enzymes and other proteins. As you already know, structure determines function. In particular, an understanding of protein structure helps us see how life takes on such endless variety. Carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids each have distinct properties that emerge due to their chemical structure and formation of large assemblies. You should be able to relate the structure of macromolecules to their function. The primary functions of carbohydrates are to: store energy, provide structure, and cell signaling and recognition. Proteins serve many functions, some of which include: catalyzing reactions as enzymes, storage, replication, transmission, and regulation of genetic information, and helping maintain structure in an organism. In this module, you will learn about the basic structure of the atom, the fundamental unit of matter. In this module, you will learn about the basic structure of the atom, the fundamental unit of matter. Notice that the structure consists of a carbon backbone running down the middle of the molecule. Glucose can be a linear molecule as shown above on the left or a ring structure depicted on the right. Notice that the structure consists of a carbon backbone running down the middle of the molecule. Recall that water has the molecular structure of H-O-H, so it also has polar bonds. Place your cursor over the structure left-click, hold, and move your pointer to rotate the structure. Recall that water has the molecular structure of H-O-H, so it also has polar bonds. But even if you don’t know anything about a substance except for its chemical structure, you can still figure out whether it is hydrophobic or hydrophilic. The three dimensional structure of ice is shown above. Place your cursor over the structure, left-click, hold, and move your pointer to rotate the molecule. The chemical structure of a common detergent, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), is shown below. A cross section image and a three-dimensional structure of a micelle are shown below. The chemical structure of a common detergent, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), is shown below. A cross section image and a three-dimensional structure of a micelle are shown below. The chemical structure of a common detergent, dodecyl sulfate (DS), is shown below. A cross section image and a three-dimensional structure of a micelle are shown below. In this module, you will take a closer look at the structure and function of these important macromolecules. Carbohydrates can be further subclassified, again on the basis of structure, depending on the number of monomers in each molecule: monosaccharides and disaccharides (simple carbohydrates) and polysaccharides (complex carbohydrates). Carbohydrates can be further subclassified, again on the basis of structure, depending on the number of monomers in each molecule: monosaccharides and disaccharides (simple carbohydrates) and polysaccharides (complex carbohydrates). Cellulose is mainly used for maintaining plant structure. In the next activity, you will practice determining whether or not a chemical structure is an organic molecule. Why are organic molecules so diverse and flexible in their structure? Why are organic molecules so diverse and flexible in their structure? Formula gives the chemical formula, Molecular indicates how the atoms are bonded together, 2D-Structural provides some information about the three-dimensional structure using a two-dimensional drawing. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA Structure. Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA Structure. Structure of DNA double helix. On the right: Three-dimensional structure of DNA double helix. Click on 'Spin On' to automatically rotate the DNA helix structure. Graphic by Madeleine Price Ball (DNA chemical structure) CC-BY-SA-2.0  Starting with the hemiacetal (closed ring) structure, the unique, newly created, asymmetric center has a special name: the anomeric carbon. In the structure of glucose given below, the anomeric carbon, which is created by forming the six member (pyranose) hemiacetal structure, is highlighted. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to that carbon are unique . The covalent bond formed between the anomeric carbon and a hydroxyl group is called a glycosidic bond and the final structure is referred to as an acetal. Each resulting disaccharide is a different structure. The stability of the glycosidic bond contributes to the effective use of the polysaccharides in maintaining structure.  Add another carbon to the structure given above. This aldose makes up the backbone structure of RNA and a derivative of it, 2-deoxyribose, makes up the backbone of DNA. The linear structure of glucose is shown below, along with ribose. It should always be remembered that while the structure on the right would appear to represent carbon as having planar bonding, in fact each of the carbons has a tetrahedral bonding structure.  Now let’s represent the ribose structure as it is actually found in solution. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to the anomeric carbon are unique, making it a chiral center. In all of these cases the structure is still ribose. The two new structures created by the ring closure create two additional conformations of the number one carbon: alpha with the hydroxyl on the right of the stick structure or pointing down in the ring representation, and beta with the hydroxyl on the left of the stick structure and pointing up in the ring structure. It should also be noted that as represented in the drawing these structures are all in equilibrium with each other and the alpha structure can be converted to the beta structure and visa versa as long as each structure can be converted to the free aldehyde structure.  In the same way that the larger aldoses were generated, single carbons can be added to the structure of the dihydroxyacetone and an expansive tree of structures result. Applying the principle that compounds will spontaneously form stable ring structures, and using a mechanism similar to that employed for the aldoses, fructose will spontaneously form a five-member ring structure. These structures are depicted below and are in equilibrium with each other through the free ketone structure.  Examine the glyceraldehyde structure given above and determine which of the carbons has a unique composition of four bonding partners. Based on the fact that this chiral carbon has tetrahedral bonding structure, it can form structural enantiomers. For glyceraldehyde, where A is an aldehyde, B is a hydrogen and X is the hydroxymethyl (CH2OH) group, the structure on the left would be referred to as D-glyceraldehyde and the structure on the right would be referred to as L-glyceraldehyde based on the orientation of the hydroxyl functional group.  Now we will build larger aldoses by adding one carbon at a time to the structure. But before we examine the structure of these compounds, let us look at some of the basic uses/functions of the carbohydrates.  The second function for the carbohydrates is structure. In this case, structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has, but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated. This difference in configuration of glycosidic bond leads to differences in structure and in function. Beta-1,4 linkage results in the linear and extended shape of the polymer structure, which allows the strands of cellulose to align and form a hydrogen-bonding network between the hydroxyls on the individual glucose subunits. The structural difference between the beta-1,4 link in cellulose and the alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond in amylose is sufficient to require different enzymes to break (hydrolyze) the bonds separating the glucose subunits in each structure. Instructions: The right hand Jmol shows the 3D structure, with one of the monosaccharides highlighted. When answering the questions below the Jmol, keep in mind that the orientation of the two rings in the 3D structure may differ from the 2D line drawing on the left. The structure is described as glucose-alpha, beta 1, 2-fructose. In this structure it is instructive to identify the anomeric carbon on the glucose and the fructose molecules since they are both involved in the formation of the glycosidic bond. The structure is a homo-dimer made up of two molecules of glucose linked by an alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bond. All three are made of the same building block (subunit or monomer) – glucose, but they are different in structure and function.  Starch: The structure of starch has two components: amylose and amylopectin. Amylopectin has the same backbone polymer structure as amylose, but also contains branches from the backbone linked by alpha -1,6 glycosidic bonds every 20-30 glucose subunits along the amylose backbone. This gives rise to a highly branched structure used in the storage of glucose in plants. This creates a much denser, more highly packed structure used for storage of glucose in mammalian cells. Clicking on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid will present the 3D structure in the Jmol window on the right (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool). Initially a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right. Sometimes the carbon are indicated by intersecting lines, instead of the letter C. Sometimes the chemical bonds are given shapes that indicate the three dimensional structure of the molecule. Sometimes the carbon are indicated by intersecting lines, instead of the letter C. Sometimes the chemical bonds are given shapes that indicate the three dimensional structure of the molecule. The structure on the right reminds you that the blocks are representing chemical structures. Click on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid below and the 3D structure will be presented in the Jmol window on the right. Initially, a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right. This module will take a closer look at the various types of proteins, their functions, and structure. Then we will examine how protein structure enables such a wide range of diverse functions. Proteins can help maintain structure in an organism. For example, look at the drawing of the three dimensional structure of myoglobin (shown on the left). You can manipulate the 3D structure using the Jmol image on the right. For example, look at the drawing of the three-dimensional structure of myoglobin (shown on the left). You can manipulate the 3D structure using the Jmol image on the right. For example, look at the drawing of the three-dimensional structure of myoglobin (shown on the left). You can manipulate the 3D structure using the Jmol image on the right. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. The FUNCTIONAL GROUPS column shows the names and chemical structure of important functional groups in biology. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Computer algorithms are currently used to predict water solubility based on structure. For our purposes, we will balance the ratio of polar and non-polar elements in a structure to estimate the chemical nature of any compound we are going to study. This basic level of protein structure is called it's primary structure and derives from the formation of peptide bonds between the individual amino acids. The higher order structure is determined by the amino acids in the primary structure. The function of a protein is determined by its higher order structure. The higher order stages of secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure of the estrogen receptor are shown in the movie below. Although the exact structure of the protein was determined using biophysical methods employing sophisticated instruments and calculations, the ability to predict the three dimensional structure (tertiary structure) of a protein de novo is not yet possible. It is possible to make excellent predictions of secondary structure from primary structure and the use of measured constraints on structure based on the structure of the peptide bond and characteristics of individual amino acids is making it possible to approach predictive methods. The stages or levels of protein structure are displayed here: Hemoglobin looks complicated, but we can understand its structure using a hierarchical description of the structure. Clicking on the button will show you the tertiary structure of one of the sub-units of hemoglobin. Of course, the tertiary structure is built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can highlight with a pink ribbon by clicking herescript('set echo off;select *:B;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent')  Quaternary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of all of the different poly-peptide chains that comprise the functional molecule. Clicking on the button will show you the complete quaternary structure of hemoglobin. Of course, the quaternary structure is also built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can view by clicking herescript('select all;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent') This module will take a closer look at the structure of a protein and examine how protein structure enables such a wide range of diverse functions. Antibodies represent a different type of quaternary structure because the individual subunits are linked by disulfide bonds. The structure is a dimer of dimers and the basic unit is a large peptide (the heavy chain) bound to a smaller chain (light chain) by disulfide bonds. Two of these heterodimers are joined by disulfide bonds between the heavy chains to form the final tetrameric structure. Elements of secondary structure include the -helix, the beta-sheet and the beta-turn. The -helix is the prominent structure seen hemoglobin shown previously. Because of the regular nature of the structure, every - angle pair in an -helix is the same. -helical structure is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between the backbone carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions on the alpha helix. Beta-Sheet The second predominant secondary structure element is the -sheet. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions about the beta-sheet. Use these checkboxes to inspect the aspects of this structure in order to answer the questions to the right: As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. You should explore the Jmol structure to determine which of the following is more important in stabilizing the tertiary structure. Tertiary structure is driven and stabilized by hydrophobic interactions and involves all types of non-covalent bonding. As you will see in the next page, quaternary structure is stabilized primarily by all types of complimentary, non-covalent interactions. Disulfide bonds also form between peptide chains in forming quaternary structure, for example in the structure of antibodies. It has a double-helix structure with the two strands running in opposite directions and complementary to each other. To understand in more detail how nucleic acids function in transmission of genetic information and in protein synthesis, you must first consider the structures of these molecules and the relationship between structure and function. Let’s examine the structure of a nucleic acid polymer. Let’s examine the structure of a nucleic acid polymer. The discovery that DNA structure is a double helix (two strands wound around each other) is considered one of the greatest discoveries in science. Understanding of the structure of DNA opened up a whole new realm of biological and biomedical research (molecular biology) and led to the development of new technologies in science and medicine. Let’s examine the structure of DNA using the activity below. These base pairing rules (A-T, G-C) are very important to the structure and function of DNA. The discovery that DNA structure is a double helix (two strands wound around each other) is considered one of the greatest discoveries in science. Understanding of the structure of DNA opened up a whole new realm of biological and biomedical research (molecular biology) and led to the development of new technologies in science and medicine. Let’s examine the structure of DNA using the activity below. These base pairing rules (A-T, G-C) are very important to the structure and function of DNA. View the short video below and then fill in the blanks in the paragraph below about the discovery of the DNA structure. The discovery that DNA structure is a double helix (two strands wound around each other) is considered one of the greatest discoveries in science. Understanding of the structure of DNA opened up a whole new realm of biological and biomedical research (molecular biology) and led to the development of new technologies in science and medicine. Let’s examine the structure of DNA using the activity below. These base pairing rules (A-T, G-C) are very important to the structure and function of DNA. The following is an interactive simulation that allows you to form hydrogen bonding pairs between the appropriate bases in DNA and RNA that would be allowed in the formation of the double helical structure. The figure below shows the same structure as a duplex of DNA. In 1953, a group of scientists contributed to one of the most significant scientific discoveries in history when they determined the structure of DNA, a nucleic acid that is the hereditary material in a cell. Examine the following table for a general understanding of lipid structure and function. The chemical structure of a wax is linked to its function. It is this structure that enables waxes to function the way they do in living systems. Steroids are a family of lipids based on a molecular structure with four fused carbon rings. Given what you know about the function and structure of cholesterol, why would deposits within the arteries be bad? What is important about the structure of a phospholipid membrane? With their “kinky” fatty acid(s), unsaturated fats will not pack into a regular structure and thus remain fluid at room temperature. In the "Biological Macromolecules" unit you learned that the structure and functions of the main biomolecules, and in particular, proteins. You will be able to relate structural characteristics of the biomolecules studied before with the structure and functions of the parts of the cell. In multicellular organisms the specialization of cells is striking, in both structure and function. The cell is the fundamental unit of structure and function in all living organisms. In spite of the fact that all cells share certain characteristics, there is incredible diversity in structure and function among different cells. An organelle is a specialized structure formed when a specific set of molecules bond, providing a subunit that performs a particular function within the cell. The following table summarizes the major structures found in cells and the primary function of each structure. In addition, it lists the types of cells in which each structure is found. In spite of the fact that all cells share certain characteristics, there is incredible diversity in structure and function among different cells. An organelle is a specialized structure formed when a specific set of molecules bond, providing a subunit that performs a particular function within the cell. The following table summarizes the major structures found in cells and the primary function of each structure. In addition, it lists the types of cells in which each structure is found. The cell is the most basic unit of structure and function in all living organisms. The cell is the most basic unit of structure and function in all living organisms. The main difference between the two is that eukaryotes have a central control structure, called the nucleus (plural form is "nuclei"), where DNA is housed. Prokaryotic cells have a simpler structure than eukaryotic cells, and they range in diameter from 0.1 to 5.0 µm (micrometers). The main difference between the two is that eukaryotes have a central control structure, called the nucleus (plural form is "nuclei"), where DNA is housed. Prokaryotic cells have a simpler structure than eukaryotic cells, and they range in diameter from 0.1 to 5.0 µm (micrometers). The bilayer's structure causes the membrane to be semipermeable. What is important about the structure of a phospholipid membrane? You might want to review the structure of phospholipids. You figured out that the structure of the archaean phospholipid is significantly different from the structure of the bacterial phospholipid. This is an excellent example of how structure determines function at the cellular level of organization. Thus transport proteins have been classified both by structure and by function. Transport proteins have been classified both by structure and by function. The structure (shape) of each channel helps determine what materials can pass through. Transport proteins are classified both by structure and by function. The structure (shape) of each channel helps determine what materials can pass through. Transport proteins are classified both by structure and by function. The structure (shape) of each channel helps determine what materials can pass through. This structure will move the chromosomes to the proper location. This structure will move the chromosomes to the proper location. This structure will move the chromosomes to the proper location. You will learn more about the structure and function of genes in the Molecular Genetics unit. Second, they help to wind the DNA molecule into an organized and compact structure. The following diagram shows how histones wind DNA into a compact structure called a chromosome. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. These six subunits from a spherical structure where the and subunits alternate. This is a prime example of the relationship between structure and function. This is a prime example of the relationship between structure and function. A change in one amino acid in the structure of hemoglobin makes it defective: the blood cells cannot transport oxygen effectively, and they accumulate in the blood vessels. Then we will look at the structure of genes and genomes as well as the interactions between genes and the environment. Then you will look at the structure of genes and genomes and at the interactions between genes and the environment. Recall that DNA structure is a double helix (see figure below). Structure of DNA double helix. On the right: Three-dimensional structure of DNA double helix. Click on 'Spin On' to automatically rotate the DNA helix structure. Graphic by Madeleine Price Ball (DNA chemical structure) CC-BY-SA-2.0 As seen in the illustration below, tRNA is produced as a primary transcript in a linear primary structure. Following processing the tRNA folds into the cloverleaf secondary structure. In this structure it is easy to see the 3’ end of the structure with its ACC sequence that is common to all tRNAs. In addition the bottom loop in the structure (the anticodon loop) contains the sequence that is complementary and antiparallel to a sequence on the mRNA. This secondary structure folds to a tertiary structure in the form of an inverted L. The 3’ end is at one end of the structure and is the site that will carry a specific amino acid that corresponds to the sequence of nucleotides in the anticodon at the other end of the molecule. In addition, several of the bases in the structure are chemically modified after the final sequence is generated. In this module, we will focus on the structure of the protein-coding genes. When you are ready, check your understanding of gene structure and regulation by taking the quiz linked below. When you are ready, check your understanding of gene structure and regulation by taking the quiz linked below. In this module, we will focus on the structure of the protein-coding genes. In the previous sections of this module, we discussed the structure and organization of genes and genomes. The structure of this operon is shown below. As you can see, it has the same structure as the lac operon, but it contains more genes for the biosynthesis of trp. The structure of this operon is shown below. As you can see, it has the same structure as the lac operon, but it contains more genes for the biosynthesis of trp.  Food and water are prevented from entering the airway when we swallow by a structure called the epiglottis. Maintenance of a consistent physical structure is important for the body to function efficiently. Support and structure are among the primary functions of the integumentary system, the skeletal , system and the muscular system. The theory is now also supported by consistent and reproducible data gathered from fossils, a detailed understanding of the skeletal and organ structure of living organisms, and our twenty-first century abilities to examine and determine the structure and function of proteins and DNA in living things. In 1953 James Watson and Francis Crick discovered the structure of DNA.  The smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life.  The study of matter and its structure, properties, and reactions.  Change in structure and function that occurs in an orderly way as an organism passes through its life cycle.  The capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter. Humans reshape the physical structure of ecosystems by clearing forests, suppressing or setting fires, building roads and cities, mining, maintaining croplands, and building water control structures such as dams. An atom, ion, or molecule that binds to another, usually larger chemical structure, to form a complex. Other characteristics of a molecule are the structure (three dimensional shape), chemical reactivitiy, and solvency. A specialized structure within a cell formed when a specific set of molecules bond, creating a subunit that has a specific function. Humans reshape the physical structure of ecosystems by clearing forests, suppressing or setting fires, building roads and cities, mining, maintaining croplands, and building water control structures such as dams. A structure surrounding all types of cells, separating it from the external environment. Proteins serve many functions, some of which include: catalyzing reactions as enzymes, storage, replication, transmission, and regulation of genetic information, and helping maintain structure in an organism. A cellular structure consisting of RNA and protein organized into two subunits and functioning as the site of protein synthesis in the cytoplasm. The primary functions of carbohydrates are to: store energy, provide structure, and cell signaling and recognition. The smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life. The theory that new cells are formed from other existing cells, and that the cell is a fundamental unit of structure, function, and organization in all living organisms. Protective and reinforcing structure found in certain cells, situated outside the plasma membrane.  The study of matter and its structure, properties, and reactions. A thread-like structure of nucleic acids carrying genetic information in the form of genes.  Change in structure and function that occurs in an orderly way as an organism passes through its life cycle. FlashMol allows you to see chemical structures in 3-D and to rotate the structure in all three dimensions.

15. [u'bodies', u'human body', u'cells']
  Some common organs in the human body are the heart, lungs, and kidneys.  Functionally-related organs that work together to carry out a function throughout an organism’s body. Your body is made up of many organ systems, including the skeletal, digestive, and circulatory systems. In your body, energy from food is processed and released, explaining the existence of body heat. A proper balance of nutrients is required to give you the building blocks you need to grow and maintain your body’s tissues. Moreover, your health also depends on trillions upon trillions of bacterial cells that live in your large intestine and on other moist surfaces throughout your body. So your body itself is a community of interdependent cells.  Your task is to build a body. Not a big body, like a human’s. Just a wee little body, of a creature we’ll call Structo. Of course Structo needs a body - otherwise, how will it function? It cannot breathe through simple diffusion of gases across the surface of its body -- like a jellyfish or sponge is able to do. Oops, now Structo has a delicate exposed gill hanging outside its body armor. You can probably imagine other ways to use the shapes and materials at hand, building a body that will help Structo overcome many different challenges. Therefore, even though your cells share the same DNA, their activities change radically in different parts of your body and at different stages of development. In this way, body structures begin to emerge. Moreover, your health also depends on trillions upon trillions of bacterial cells that live in and on your body. So your body itself is a community of interdependent cells. Your body’s organs function as they do because of how tissues are put together, forming filters, pumps, levers, gas exchange surfaces, pipes for air and fluid flow, etc. And, of course, the entire body of an organism is suited to its lifestyle and environment. Your body’s organs function as they do because of how tissues are put together, forming filters, pumps, levers, surfaces for gas exchange, and pipes for air and fluid flow. And, of course, the entire body of an organism is suited to its lifestyle and environment. It cannot breathe through simple diffusion of gases across the surface of its body, like a jellyfish or sponge is able to do. You can probably imagine other ways to use different shapes and materials to build a functional body that enables Structo to overcome many different challenges. Actually, there are over ten times more bacterial cells inside and on our bodies than there are our own human body cells! Mammals have many organ systems, an example of which is the circulatory system that transports blood through the body and to and from the lungs; it includes organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Biologists study the human body and figure out how it works when it is healthy, and compare that to the way it works when things go wrong. You, as an organism, have a circulatory system (organ system) that transports blood through the body. In fact, in and on your body, bacterial cells outnumber your own human cells 10 to one. Perhaps you have heard about methycillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), which can be picked up in hospitals and places of close body contact (locker rooms, retirement homes). If it penetrates the body, it may dissolve the skin and underlying muscle. For example, the circulatory system transports blood through the body and includes organs such as the heart and blood vessels. A human is an organism which has a circulatory system (organ system) that transports blood through the body. Without saying so directly, the doctor may show — through body language or other subtle cues — his or her views about whether the patient is likely to get well. Sometimes a variable takes the form of a category, such as male or female; often a variable can be measured precisely, such as body height. Science is both a body of factual knowledge and a process for understanding how the natural world works. Despite the tentative nature of science, scientific knowledge is the most reliable body of knowledge we have about the natural world and how it works. The fly lays its eggs on worker bees and its larvae live within bees, feeding on their body tissues. The inside of our cells and our body fluids are examples of aqueous solutions. Understanding acids and bases is important to biology because living organisms must maintain homeostasis (balance) and cannot tolerate drastic changes in the acidity of their body fluids or cytoplasm. Understanding acids and bases is important to biology because living organisms must maintain homeostasis (balance) and cannot tolerate drastic changes in the acidity of their body fluids or cytoplasm. When the normal pH levels of the body are disrupted, there are detriments to the health of the organism. When the pH increases in this area of the body (becomes more basic), women are more prone to bacterial infections of the vagina. The presence of excess ketone acids lowers the body’s pH, leading to several health problems as detailed on the figure below. Treatment consists of restoring proper insulin levels in the body (so that carbohydrates can be absorbed by cells and used as a fuel source) and ensuring proper hydration (to help the kidneys flush out the excess ketones). Changes in the hydrogen ion concentration in your body can result in disease and even death. When you eat the complex carbohydrate, your body breaks the large molecules into their smaller subunits (sugars), which you will then use to fuel your own body’s energy needs. Once glycogen stores are filled, the body begins storing excess food calories as fat. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Some soluble proteins can transport materials throughout the body. Take a look at this diagram to see even more ways that proteins are used in your body. This helps your body digest the proteins found in your food, and it helps kill ingested bacteria and viruses. This helps your body digest the proteins found in your food, and it helps kill ingested bacteria and viruses. This helps your body digest the proteins found in your food, and it helps kill ingested bacteria and viruses. Thus, the information carried in the DNA is precisely duplicated to maintain consistency throughout the person’s body and throughout the person's life. For example, red blood cells produce protein hemoglobin required for delivery of oxygen throughout the body. This means that they are produced by cells in one part of the body and affect cells in a different part of the body. Cholesterol is an example of a familiar steroid that plays many important roles in your body. In fact, most of the cholesterol in your body is synthesized by your liver. Cholesterol is also the precursor to vitamins D and K. Some cholesterol is converted to bile salts, which help in the absorption of fats from the digestive system into the body. Because cholesterol is hydrophobic, it cannot be easily transported through the body in the blood stream. A carrier is required to transport cholesterol around the body to the cells that need it. You can think of lipoproteins as cholesterol boats that carry cholesterol to the body’s cells (where it can be used to build or repair cell membranes or synthesize steroid hormones). This is particularly true of marine endotherms (i.e., organisms that maintain internal body temperature using their own metabolism) that live in cold polar regions, like penguins, whales, and seals. At 27oC (room temperature) and at 37oC (body temperature), triglycerides with unsaturated fatty acids are liquid oils, whereas saturated fats remain solid. The human body alone contains trillions of cells of more than 200 different types, each with a unique structure and function. The human body alone contains trillions of cells of more than 200 different types, each with a unique structure and function. Most body cells can divide. For example, if you move to higher altitude, your body will produce more red blood cells in order to supply enough oxygen despite the thinner air. The vesicle that contains these bacterial cells is called a phagosome (“eating” “body”). The vesicle that contains these bacterial cells is called a phagosome ("phago" means "eating" and "-some" refers to "body"). The vesicle that contains these bacterial cells is called a phagosome ("phago" means "eating" and "-some" refers to "body"). Cells with a single set of chromosomes are haploid (n), in contrast to the somatic (body) cells, which are diploid(2n) . Cells with a single set of chromosomes are haploid (n), in contrast to the somatic (body) cells, which are diploid (2n). Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FADH+) are enzymes found in most cells of the body. Thus, it releases excess oxygen into the atmosphere and stores carbohydrates and other molecules in its body as growth. Thus, it releases excess oxygen into the atmosphere and stores carbohydrates and other molecules in its body as growth. Body mass index (BMI) provides an approximation of total body fat based upon height and weight, and can be used to identify potential weight problems for adults (both males and females). BMI does not distinguish between bone/muscle weight and excessive body fat. Some people with heavy bone structure or highly developed muscle may be rated as overweight or obese, despite having little body fat. However, for people of average stature and fitness, the BMI is a reasonable indicator of body fat. Insert your height and weight to have your body mass index (BMI) calculated. It is important that you have adequate body fat and muscle, and your low weight may be a sign of a serious problem. The cell, and the organism as a whole (e.g., the human body), tend to respond to external influences in ways that maintain a relatively stable internal environment. Precise regulation enables the cell (or body) to establish consistent internal conditions. You had to work at staying upright because your body was in motion. As a result, many levels of regulation are constantly at work within your body, keeping internal processes balanced and compensating for external changes. Many humans are able to maintain a stable adult body weight over a large number of years. Simply put, if more calories are consumed than are required for growth, activity, and maintenance, the excess energy is stored within the body. On the other hand, if not enough food calories are consumed, the body will begin to break down its own tissues as a source of energy, and will decline in mass as a result. Obesity is a condition in which body fat is excessive and interferes with normal function or impairs health. For example, many (but not all) obese individuals have very high circulating levels of leptin in keeping with their high body fat reserves. The body’s calorie requirement declines with age, and depends on many factors, including body size, sex, and physical activity. A pound of body fat stores a total of about 3,500 calories. A calorie surplus occurs when more calories are taken in than the body expends. As you have seen, the balance between caloric intake and output must be held within narrow limits to maintain a steady body weight. Breakfast provides fuel to rebuild some of the body’s glycogen stores that were depleted overnight. Over longer time periods, body fat is used to store excess energy. When glycogen stores are full, the body switches over to storing the excess energy as fat. Fat is an efficient way for the body to store extra calories, because it is able to pack more calories per unit mass when compared with carbohydrates or proteins (see Figure 8.2 below). You can think of body fat as a long-term, highly compacted energy reserve. Later weight loss comes more slowly, because body fat stores a great deal of energy and is associated with much less water. Importantly, body fat is not just a storage bin. For example, body fat secretes a hormone called leptin. This acts on target cells in the brain to produce feelings of “fullness.” Loss of body fat leads to decreases in leptin and increasing feelings of hunger. As a person loses weight, total metabolism goes down simply because the body is getting smaller. More significantly, the per-pound rate of metabolism is turned down to conserve energy and resist what the body perceives as “starvation.” A person in this state will feel sluggish and reluctant to exercise. In the 1930s, for instance, researchers found a gene in chickens that leads most obviously to feathers that curl out, but that also (and less visibly) leads to increased metabolism, blood flow, body temperature, and digestive capacity, as well as fewer eggs laid. For example, red blood cells produce the protein hemoglobin, which is required for delivery of oxygen throughout the body. This defective enzyme is inactive at normal body temperatures, but it becomes active in cooler areas of the skin. This results in dark coloration in the coolest parts of the body, including the extremities and the face, which is cooled by the passage of air through the sinuses. An organ system is an integrated collection of organs in the body that work together to perform a vital function. Major organ systems in the body include: The organ systems of the body will be systematically described, as well as, the major anatomical structures and functions. An organ system is an integrated collection of organs in the body that work together to perform a vital function. This course will organize the organ systems of the body based on the vital functions defined earlier. The major organ systems of the body are shown in the table below. The most obvious components of this system are the bones, which form a rigid framework for the body. In such organisms, including humans, there are specialized organ systems that serve as interfaces with the environment, moving things into, and out of, the body to keep it functioning. These waste materials must be eliminated from the body to prevent illness. The urinary system also helps with removal of wastes being transported in the body fluids, but the “exchange” is all internal so it will be explored more in next the vital function category. This allows the body to obtain oxygen, which is needed for metabolic processes, and eliminate carbon dioxide, which is a metabolic waste product and can affect the body's pH homeostasis. Our body constantly transports molecules from one place to another to carry out the required metabolic functions for daily living. Furthermore, our body must have a system for disposing of wastes generated by metabolism and foreign particles, which may potentially disturb optimal body function. The heart supplies the force to circulate blood throughout the body via the blood vessels. Blood is the main fluid used to deliver nutrients to the body’s tissues and to receive wastes that will ultimately be removed from the body by the urinary system. The lymphatic system is an integrated part of the immune system to cleanse body fluids of dead cells, toxins, and pathogens. Together, the transport systems of the body coordinate the efforts of nutrient delivery and removal of wastes and other harmful substances. The cardiovascular system transports, from one part of the body to another: nutrients, oxygen, ions, proteins, hormones and other signaling molecules, as well as waste products, including carbon dioxide. Without this system in place that involves both the pumping of the heart to squeeze blood out, and the network of vessels to distribute the pumped blood, the cells of your body would not have an adequate supply of nutrients and oxygen. The primary components of the cardiovascular system are blood, the heart, and the vessels of the circulatory system, which work together to transport nutrients, wastes, and gases to every cell in the body. The blood that is circulated throughout the body contains two main components: Arteries of the systemic circuit (also known as the systemic circulatory circuit) carry oxygenated blood from your heart to provide oxygen and nutrients dissolved in the blood to every cell in your body. When blood leaves the left ventricle it first enters the aorta, the largest artery in the human body. It is estimated that your body contains approximately 60,000 miles of capillaries, that is enough to encircle earth three times! Previous sections contained an overview of some of the inputs and outputs necessary for life as well as a mechanism to deliver them within the body. This section will discuss the structures the human body needs to compartmentalize and protect these vital components; and, the structures that enable the body to move, obtain nutrients, and avoid predators. These organ systems also allow the body to move in response to internal and external stimuli. The numerous organs and structures of the skeletal system allow it to serve an important role in the support and protection of our body.  Bones are found throughout the body from the skull in the head to the 26 bones in the foot. Bones are connected to the muscular system by tendons, which allow the body to move. Although there are different types of bones in our body, the basic components of all bone tissue are the same: The inorganic matrix of bone gives the bone rigidity and also acts as a storage depot for calcium and phosphorus in the body. The muscular system only contains skeletal muscle, although the body also has smooth and cardiac muscle tissue, which are important in other body systems. There are over 650 skeletal muscles in the human body! Smooth muscle and cardiac muscle are similar to skeletal muscle, but perform specialized functions in the body. Smooth muscles control involuntary functions of the body, such as arterial contractions to move blood and peristaltic contractions in the digestive system to move food. There are many muscle fiber types throughout the body that vary based on function. The nervous and endocrine systems work together to control many of the body’s other organ systems through electrical signals and chemical messengers. The activities of the two systems coordinate many of the body’s metabolic activities. Other parts of the nervous system control and coordinate subconscious body activities, including heart rate, gland secretions and smooth muscle movement in the digestive system. On the other hand, the parasympathetic nervous system controls functions that have the opposite effect—they reduce heart rate and decrease overall energy usage when the body is returning to normal after an emergency or during normal functioning.  The nervous system transmits signals to different parts of the body to coordinate function. The brain has several lobes, each of which carries out specific functions and processes information associated with specific parts of the body. Nerves are bundles of extensions from neurons that extend through the body in the peripheral nervous system. The autonomic nervous system monitors and regulates changes in the body's internal environment. Body processes controlled by the autonomic nervous system include the contractions of the stomach and other digestive organs, the heart rate, and contractions of blood vessels to control blood pressure and flow though the body. In this unit, you will be introduced to the major organ systems of the body. For the organs of the human body to function, they must be protected from potentially damaging substances in the environment. This system prevents many potentially harmful irritants from entering the body. Eyelashes, for example, help keep sand or other items out of the eyes, where they could potentially cause serious damage, and the skin prevents most pathogens (disease-causing microorganisms) from entering the body and destroying healthy body cells. The skeletal system and the muscular system also support the body and allow it to move away from danger, toward food sources, etc. The cardiovascular and lymphatic systems also help defend the body’s cells from foreign organisms that may enter the body tissues or fluids through the process of immunity. In humans, the nervous system, made up of the brain, nerves, spinal cord and sensory organs, reacts to stimuli in the environment and signals other systems when actions are needed to bring the body back into balance. The endocrine system, which produces hormones and other regulatory substances, plays a key role in maintaining balance among chemical messengers within the body. Locally, most body cells can produce chemical messages that influence the metabolism of other cells. And there are some organs in other body systems that produce chemicals that can travel through the body to regulate metabolic processes in other organs. As you can see, several organ systems work together to accomplish these various vital functions throughout the body. Since the organ systems are distributed throughout large regions of the human body, it is necessary to define orientation within the body and communicate the proper terminology as you study these integrated structures and functions. While all of these activities are important, some are essential to the survival of the human body itself. They are vital functions Our body's anatomy and physiology works together to perform the vital functions that keep us alive - processes or actions of the body on which life is directly dependent. You will examine four main vital functions in this course: exchange with the environment; transport within the body; structure, support, and movement; and control and regulation. Our body's anatomy and physiology works together to perform the vital functions that keep us alive How does the human body do these things? In order to survive, the human body must obtain food, water, and oxygen from the world around it. The human body must also rid itself of wastes before they build up to toxic levels. The digestive system brings food and water into the body and eliminates solid wastes.  The urinary system doesn’t take in anything from the environment, but does eliminate waste products of metabolism from the body fluid. However, this is just one of several roles that the urinary system plays in maintaining homeostasis of body fluids, so it will be explored more extensively in the next vital function category involving body fluids. Instead, body cells rely on organ systems to transport and regulate the composition of internal fluids throughout the body. Three main body systems, the cardiovascular system, the lymphatic system, and the urinary system take care of this vital bodily function. The cardiovascular and lymphatic systems also participate in the function of immunity, to help defend the body's cells from foreign organisms that may enter the body tissues or fluids. The lymphatic system returns interstitial fluid to blood and the urinary system filters blood to regulate body fluid homeostasis, including volume, pressure, and chemical composition. In this unit on Human Organ Systems, you will learn how the human body is able to maintain health and execute the functions of life through the use of diverse organs. We can only begin to try to appreciate the complex structures and functions of a human body in this introductory course, but in this unit we will introduce the different human organ systems and then proceed to study five of them in slightly greater depth. As its body temperature, breeding status, and mood change, a lizard’s colors may intensify or fade. Body structures and patterns of embryological development tell the same story. Some common organs in the human body are the heart, lungs, and kidneys. Functionally-related organs that work together to carry out a function throughout an organism’s body. Your body is made up of many organ systems, including the skeletal, digestive, and circulatory systems. Organisms that maintain internal body temperature using their own metabolism; for example animals that live in cold polar regions, like penguins, whales, and seals. A cell that in the body of a sexually reproducing organism that produces gametes (eggs or sperm) through meiosis. Some common organs in the human body are the heart, lungs, and kidneys. Functionally-related organs that work together to carry out a function throughout an organism’s body. Your body is made up of many organ systems, including the skeletal, digestive, and circulatory systems.

