3. [u'cell', u'celled', u'build cells']
   The Cell To put the course in perspective, we begin by exploring the cell and the components of the cell called organelles. The focus of this course is to understand the components of the cell, how they interact with each other, how they are created, destroyed and how they regulate transport, growth and division of the cell. We will examine the controlled chemical environment a cell maintains and what restrictions this places on the types of chemical reactions it can perform. This background is vital to understanding key processes such as how a cell releases energy from glucose, makes and folds proteins, and goes through growth and cell division. Above is a caricature of a eukaryotic cell. Many of the cell components are hyper links that will provide you with an image showing these same structures in a living cell. This illustration highlights one of the goals of the course which is to expand your view of biology by bridging from classic simple illustrations to images generated from actual data. In addition, you will develop an understanding of the fundamental processes used in this imaging method. Practice This exercise uses the Cell to let you test your knowledge of the functions of the organelles. This exercise uses the Cell to let you test your knowledge of the functions of the organelles.   The Cell Quiz   Phagocytosis Be able to recognize and describe sucrose, lactose, cellulose, glycogen, amylose, amylopectin, and starch Be able to distinguish characteristic structural differences among homopolysaccharides Be able to distinguish and describe the differences between plant cell and bacterial cell wall. Add content here.   Pinocytosis Be able to recognize and describe sucrose, lactose, cellulose, glycogen, amylose, amylopectin, and starch Be able to distinguish characteristic structural differences among homopolysaccharides Be able to distinguish and describe the differences between plant cell and bacterial cell wall. Add content here.   Growth and Reproduction All organisms grow and develop. Growth is just an increase in size. In development, structure and function change in an orderly way as an organism passes through its life cycle. An individual’s pattern of development is partly determined by genetic instructions. DNA, the molecule of inheritance, encodes proteins and other molecules that build cells and make them work. You can think of genes as “recipes” for proteins. Each cell has a huge library of thousands of recipes in its DNA. But most of the recipes don’t get used in any given cell. Chemical controls tell the “cooks” whether to make a given protein, or ignore its recipe and make something else. Therefore, even though your cells share the same DNA, their activities change radically in different parts of your body and at different stages of development. Early Development of a Zebrafish Used by permission from R.O. Karlstrom and D.A. Kane. Published: Development, 1996, Dec;123:1-461. In this time-lapse video, a few days of development are sped up for your viewing pleasure. In the earliest frames you can see large cells dividing. With each division the individual cells get smaller. Chemical signals in each cell are passed to its descendants and to nearby cells. As a result, DNA is turned “on” or “off” in each cell, leading to different shapes and structures. Toward the middle and end of the video, individual cells are much too tiny to see. Specialized cell types form. Cells move from place to place, grow, die to create gaps, and divide to create bulges. In this way, body structures begin to emerge. Reproduction occurs when an individual organism passes on its genetic information to a newly independent organism, or offspring. Individual organisms have a limited life span. All are subject to extreme events that bring death, such as being eaten by a predator. Even if they avoid such a fate, most organisms decline in health and die toward the end of their typical life span. Reproduction maintains genetic information by passing it to new individuals. Offspring resemble their parent(s) and reproduction maintains the continuity of life over time.   Structure Determines Function Biologists describe how organisms are put together (structure) and explain how organisms stay alive, move, grow, reproduce, and do other activities (function). The two are intimately related. “Structure” is defined in part as the composition of a feature: what it is made of. Different materials have properties - such as strength, flexibility, and many more - that influence how they are used in cells and bodies. Second, structure also involves shape: the three-dimensional form of a feature. Consider a piece of wood. Depending on how it is shaped, it could be used as a spear, drinking cup, smoking pipe, or even a musical flute. In biology, thousands of materials make up our cells and bodies and they can be shaped in countless ways to generate the rich functions of life. At the smallest level, the structure of molecules determines their function within cells. For example, enzymes are critically important proteins that speed up the rate of chemical reactions that support life. Enzymes break down food molecules, help build a muscle proteins, help destroy toxins, and much more. An enzyme’s ability to function depends directly on its three-dimensional shape. If exposed to excessive heat or harsh chemical conditions, enzymes unravel and change in shape. When this occurs, the enzymes stop working and the chemical reactions of life slow down or cease. Below a few cell types are compared to illustrate how structure relates to function at the next level up - the cellular level. First division of a sea urchin cell just after egg and sperm join to start the life cycle. The cells are relatively large, because they are full of nutrients that will be used to feed the developing animal. Otherwise there is little noticeable structure to the cells. Their main function at this point is simply to divide, laying the groundwork for future more specialized generations of cells within the body. Hair cells in the inner ear of a guinea pig. These cells are shaped so that they are easily disturbed by vibrations. When they are flexed, a signal passes to nerve cells that take the message to the brain where it is interpreted as sound. Lining of a human oviduct, or fallopian tube. This view shows several cells. Together they form a lining. They are shaped to form a sealed surface. Broom-like structures sprout from the exposed surface of each cell. These beat against the fluid in the tube, creating a gentle current that moves the egg cell toward the uterus, where it may implant to begin a pregnancy. Developing nerve cells in the spinal cord of an embryo. When mature the reddish structures will connect to other cells to relay nerve signals. Right now they are exploring the environment, responding to chemical signals, and growing toward their destinations. This function is supported by the branching “hand-like” structure; these cell structures are chemically “feeling their way along” through the embryo. The long thin yellow structures will act as cables, carrying signals over long distances - just as their structure suggests. Structure also determines biological function at higher levels of organization. Your body’s organs function as they do because of how tissues are put together, forming filters, pumps, levers, gas exchange surfaces, pipes for air and fluid flow, etc. And, of course, the entire body of an organism is suited to its lifestyle and environment. The earthworm is quite obviously well-suited to burrowing: it is slimy, muscular, flexible, and cylindrical. Yet there are many surprising details even in the humble worm’s structure. Next time you get the chance, FEEL an earthworm. Pinch it carefully near the head with one hand, then rub your free forefinger against its belly. You’ll notice prickly hairs on the worm’s underside. And you’ll find that you only feel them when you move your finger toward the worm’s head: the hairs are set at an angle, gripping the soil to help the worm move forward through the earth.   Structure Determines Function Biologists describe how organisms are put together (structure) and explain how organisms stay alive, move, grow, reproduce, and do other activities (function). In biological systems, the structure of a cell or body part is tightly linked to its function within the life of the organism. The structure of something is determined by two factors: its three-dimensional shape, and the materials from which it is made. The structure that something takes directly influences its possible functions. Consider a piece of wood. Depending on how it is shaped, it could be used as a spear for hunting, a cup for drinking, a pipe for smoking, or even a flute for playing music. The wood also possesses unique properties that influence how it can be used. For example, the piece of wood could never function as a hot air balloon, no matter what kind of shape it took. It would always be too heavy to lift off the ground. At the smallest levels of biological organization, the structure of a molecule determines its function within a cell. In this course, you might investigate the structure of a molecule and then learn what it does. It will help you to remind yourself: the structure and the function of this molecule are connected. Enzymes are molecules found within a cell that speed up the rate of the chemical reactions necessary to support life. Enzymes break down food molecules, help build muscle proteins, can destroy toxins, and much more. An enzyme’s ability to function depends directly on its three-dimensional shape. If exposed to excessive heat or harsh chemical conditions, enzymes unravel and change shape. When this occurs, the enzymes stop working and the chemical reactions of life slow down or cease. At a larger scale, the structure of a cell is directly linked to its function within the body of a multicellular organism. Compare the following images of some different cell types and explore how structure relates to function at the cellular level. First division of a sea urchin cell just after egg and sperm join to start the life cycle. The cells are relatively large, because they are full of nutrients that will be used to feed the developing animal. Otherwise, there is little noticeable structure to the cells. Their main function at this point is simply to divide, laying the groundwork for future more specialized generations of cells within the body. (Source: Evelyn Spiegel and Louisa Howard, The Cell Image Library) Developing nerve cells in the spinal cord of an embryo. When mature, the reddish structures will connect to other cells to relay nerve signals. Right now they are exploring the environment, responding to chemical signals, and growing toward their destinations. This function is supported by the branching “hand-like” structure; these cell structures are chemically “feeling their way along” through the embryo. The long thin yellow structures will act as cables, carrying signals over long distances — just as their structure suggests. Lining of a human oviduct, or fallopian tube. This view shows several cells. Together they form a lining. They are shaped to form a sealed surface. Broom-like structures sprout from the exposed surface of each cell. These beat against the fluid in the tube, creating a gentle current that moves the egg cell toward the uterus, where it may implant to begin a pregnancy. Hair cells in the inner ear of a guinea pig. These cells are shaped so that they are easily disturbed by vibrations. When they are flexed, a signal passes to nerve cells that take the message to the brain, where it is interpreted as sound. (Source: Dr. David Furness, Wellcome Images) Structure also determines function at higher levels of biological organization. Your body’s organs function as they do because of how tissues are put together, forming filters, pumps, levers, surfaces for gas exchange, and pipes for air and fluid flow. And, of course, the entire body of an organism is suited to its lifestyle and environment. For example, the earthworm is well-suited for burrowing: it is slimy, muscular, flexible, and cylindrical. Yet there are many surprising details in the worm’s structure. The next time you get the chance, feel an earthworm. Pinch it carefully near the head with one hand, then rub your free forefinger against its belly. You’ll notice prickly hairs on the worm’s underside. And you’ll find that you only feel them when you move your finger toward the worm’s head: the hairs are set at an angle, enabling the worm to grip the soil to and move it forward through the earth. Let’s explore the relationship between structure and function by building a body for a hypothetical creature we’ll call Structo. Structo is just a blob floating in the ocean, and it needs a structure that will allow it to exchange gases between its blood and the surrounding water. It cannot breathe through simple diffusion of gases across the surface of its body, like a jellyfish or sponge is able to do. Instead, it needs a specialized structure to help it breathe. You can probably imagine other ways to use different shapes and materials to build a functional body that enables Structo to overcome many different challenges. Environmental pressures have led (and continue to lead) to the evolution of organisms with a virtually infinite range of such combinations. In fact, organisms are so well adapted to their environments that humans are now looking to them for inspiration. Today, a fast-growing field called biomimicry brings biologists together with engineers to develop new products based on solutions found in nature. One of the earliest products of this approach was the invention of Velcro (the hook and loop attachment) by Swiss engineer Georges de Mestral. He was inspired by the burrs that got stuck in his dog’s fur. To learn more, visit the Biomimicry Institute.   What is Life? Classification of Matter All matter can be classified into one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Something is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time; in this sense, a dead human buried in a wooden coffin underground is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is abiotic. All biotic (living) things: Use energy and raw materials to survive Sense and respond to changing environments Grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA Consist of one or more cells ALL four of the above conditions must be met (or have been met in the past); otherwise, that being classified is considered to be abiotic (non-living). Viruses Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Virus Characteristics: Indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. Viruses use energy and raw materials to survive. When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and coerces the cell’s machinery to make more virus particles. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell and infect other cells. 2. Viruses sense and respond to changing environments. Viruses are very specific to a particular host cell. Proteins on the surface of the virus recognize proteins on the surface of cells. Viruses only infect cells with the proper proteins. Viruses mutate rapidly. This is one of the reasons that we need new flu vaccines each year. The flu is caused by a virus, and the flu vaccine helps the body recognize and defend against the current flu virus. By next year, the virus has changed so much, that our current immunizations no longer protect against the new virus. For similar reasons, AIDS drugs are changed periodically. If the same drug is used for a long time, the HIV viruses in the patient’s body evolve resistance to this drug. 3. Viruses grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. 4. A virus consist of one or more cells. Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to interact with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication. Recall the structure of a virus and determine if it meets the definition of a cell. Bacteria Until the late 1600s, only large life forms such as plants and animals were known to science. Scientists and common folk alike were totally ignorant of the teeming microscopic life forms that inhabit our world. In fact, they didn’t even know that plants and animals are composed of cells! Our understanding of life was very poor. The invention and refinement of the microscope changed all that. Today we are aware of a vast diversity of single-celled, microscopic life forms that interact with us every day. Actually, there are over ten times more bacterial cells inside and on our bodies than there are our own human body cells! We are aware that these living things interact with every large organism on Earth, cleanse the water we drink, and renew the air we breathe. In particular, we are aware that bacteria can cause disease: this was not fully demonstrated until the late 1800s! The earliest measures to control bacterial diseases involved sanitation: clean surgical techniques, water treatment, and sewage treatment. Once bacterial infections took hold, they were often fatal. E. coli Under a Microscope These Escherichia coli (E. coli) are seen under a light microscope at a magnification of 1000x (at this level, a grain of rice would appear to be the size of a bus!). Microscopic organisms, such as this E. coli are essential for keeping us healthy. E. coli and other microbes living in our gut help with proper digestive health. Although some E. coli can be harmful, most are not. Antibiotics Penicillin, the first antibiotic, was serendipitously discovered by Alexander Fleming in 1928. He had left some Petri dishes out too long and mold had grown on the bacterial medium. Looking closely, Fleming saw that bacteria did not grow well in a zone around the moldy spots. Following up on a hunch, he deliberately added mold to some plates seeded with bacteria and found that bacteria were killed near the mold colonies. By the mid-1940s, just in time to help wounded soldiers in World War II, scientists were able to mass-produce a drug derived from the mold. Antibiotics are substances that are produced by one type of organism (usually bacteria or mold) and used to kill or suppress other organisms (usually bacteria). Antibiotics have a very specific way of working called their “mode of action.” Penicillin works by interfering with cell wall construction in bacterial cells. The cell wall is a somewhat rigid “shell” that encloses a bacterial cell. In the presence of penicillin, a bacterium’s cell wall cannot be built (or rebuilt) and the cell wall eventually collapses, killing the cell. Cell walls are not present around human cells, or those of any other animal. Therefore penicillin does not harm our cells - only those of bacteria. This is a general feature of antibiotics. When taken in prescribed doses, antibiotics are usually harmless to humans. During and just after World War II, penicillin was touted as a wonder drug, and many believed the battle against pathogenic (harmful) bacteria would be won in a matter of years. However, the initial success of this antibiotic was relatively short-lived, as bacteria began to evolve resistance to the drug. In any group of bacteria, individuals can have variations in their genetic makeup that help them survive in the presence of specific antibiotic compounds. Over time, if the antibiotic is used, vulnerable types of bacteria die out and the “resistant” types of bacteria reproduce much better than average. Eventually most or all bacteria in the environment are resistant, making the antibiotic useless. Antibiotic Resistance A poster produced by the Chicago Department of Health warning about antibiotic resistant gonorrhea. Presently, we are facing a growing threat to human health; the overuse and misuse of antibiotics has led to the evolution of “superbugs” -- bacterial strains that are resistant to many different types of antibiotics. Such infections are very hard to treat, and can be deadly. Perhaps you have heard about a multiple drug resistant Staphylococcus (MSRA) that can be picked up in hospitals and can dissolve the skin and underlying muscle. One way to reduce the development of antibiotic resistance is to use antibiotics only when necessary, so that there are many antibiotic-free people and places in the environment. This makes it easier for vulnerable strains of bacteria to reproduce, and keeps these strains more common. Within a sick patient, however, the goal of antibiotic therapy is to keep reducing the numbers of harmful bacteria until your immune system can kill off the last (and probably most resistant) holdouts. Therefore it is important to take antibiotics at full dosage and to complete the round of treatment as directed, continuing until it is certain that your bacterial foes have been eliminated. We are not helpless against the rising tide of antibiotic resistance. Today, with our great knowledge of microscopic life and nonliving - but equally dangerous - viruses, we have an unprecedented ability to understand and address health challenges. All matter can be classified into one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Something is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time; in this sense, a dead human buried in a wooden coffin underground is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is abiotic. All biotic (living) things: Use energy and raw materials to survive Sense and respond to changing environments Grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA Consist of one or more cells ALL four of the above conditions must be met (or have been met in the past); otherwise, that being classified is considered to be abiotic (non-living). Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Virus Characteristics: Indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. Viruses use energy and raw materials to survive. When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and coerces the cell’s machinery to make more virus particles. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell and infect other cells. 2. Viruses sense and respond to changing environments. Viruses are very specific to a particular host cell. Proteins on the surface of the virus recognize proteins on the surface of cells. Viruses only infect cells with the proper proteins. Viruses mutate rapidly. This is one of the reasons that we need new flu vaccines each year. The flu is caused by a virus, and the flu vaccine helps the body recognize and defend against the current flu virus. By next year, the virus has changed so much, that our current immunizations no longer protect against the new virus. For similar reasons, AIDS drugs are changed periodically. If the same drug is used for a long time, the HIV viruses in the patient’s body evolve resistance to this drug. 3. Viruses grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. 4. A virus consist of one or more cells. Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to interact with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication. Recall the structure of a virus and determine if it meets the definition of a cell. Until the late 1600s, only large life forms such as plants and animals were known to science. Scientists and common folk alike were totally ignorant of the teeming microscopic life forms that inhabit our world. In fact, they didn’t even know that plants and animals are composed of cells! Our understanding of life was very poor. The invention and refinement of the microscope changed all that. Today we are aware of a vast diversity of single-celled, microscopic life forms that interact with us every day. Actually, there are over ten times more bacterial cells inside and on our bodies than there are our own human body cells! We are aware that these living things interact with every large organism on Earth, cleanse the water we drink, and renew the air we breathe. In particular, we are aware that bacteria can cause disease: this was not fully demonstrated until the late 1800s! The earliest measures to control bacterial diseases involved sanitation: clean surgical techniques, water treatment, and sewage treatment. Once bacterial infections took hold, they were often fatal. E. coli Under a Microscope These Escherichia coli (E. coli) are seen under a light microscope at a magnification of 1000x (at this level, a grain of rice would appear to be the size of a bus!). Microscopic organisms, such as this E. coli are essential for keeping us healthy. E. coli and other microbes living in our gut help with proper digestive health. Although some E. coli can be harmful, most are not. Penicillin, the first antibiotic, was serendipitously discovered by Alexander Fleming in 1928. He had left some Petri dishes out too long and mold had grown on the bacterial medium. Looking closely, Fleming saw that bacteria did not grow well in a zone around the moldy spots. Following up on a hunch, he deliberately added mold to some plates seeded with bacteria and found that bacteria were killed near the mold colonies. By the mid-1940s, just in time to help wounded soldiers in World War II, scientists were able to mass-produce a drug derived from the mold. Antibiotics are substances that are produced by one type of organism (usually bacteria or mold) and used to kill or suppress other organisms (usually bacteria). Antibiotics have a very specific way of working called their “mode of action.” Penicillin works by interfering with cell wall construction in bacterial cells. The cell wall is a somewhat rigid “shell” that encloses a bacterial cell. In the presence of penicillin, a bacterium’s cell wall cannot be built (or rebuilt) and the cell wall eventually collapses, killing the cell. Cell walls are not present around human cells, or those of any other animal. Therefore penicillin does not harm our cells - only those of bacteria. This is a general feature of antibiotics. When taken in prescribed doses, antibiotics are usually harmless to humans. During and just after World War II, penicillin was touted as a wonder drug, and many believed the battle against pathogenic (harmful) bacteria would be won in a matter of years. However, the initial success of this antibiotic was relatively short-lived, as bacteria began to evolve resistance to the drug. In any group of bacteria, individuals can have variations in their genetic makeup that help them survive in the presence of specific antibiotic compounds. Over time, if the antibiotic is used, vulnerable types of bacteria die out and the “resistant” types of bacteria reproduce much better than average. Eventually most or all bacteria in the environment are resistant, making the antibiotic useless. Antibiotic Resistance A poster produced by the Chicago Department of Health warning about antibiotic resistant gonorrhea. Presently, we are facing a growing threat to human health; the overuse and misuse of antibiotics has led to the evolution of “superbugs” -- bacterial strains that are resistant to many different types of antibiotics. Such infections are very hard to treat, and can be deadly. Perhaps you have heard about a multiple drug resistant Staphylococcus (MSRA) that can be picked up in hospitals and can dissolve the skin and underlying muscle. One way to reduce the development of antibiotic resistance is to use antibiotics only when necessary, so that there are many antibiotic-free people and places in the environment. This makes it easier for vulnerable strains of bacteria to reproduce, and keeps these strains more common. Within a sick patient, however, the goal of antibiotic therapy is to keep reducing the numbers of harmful bacteria until your immune system can kill off the last (and probably most resistant) holdouts. Therefore it is important to take antibiotics at full dosage and to complete the round of treatment as directed, continuing until it is certain that your bacterial foes have been eliminated. We are not helpless against the rising tide of antibiotic resistance. Today, with our great knowledge of microscopic life and nonliving - but equally dangerous - viruses, we have an unprecedented ability to understand and address health challenges.   What is Life? Classification of Matter All matter can be classified into one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Something is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within or made by a living organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is abiotic. All biotic (living) things: Use energy and matter and to grow Sense and respond to changing environments Reproduce themselves with the help of DNA Consist of one or more cells Many nonliving things might show one or even up to three of the above characteristics. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. ALL four of the above conditions must be met (or have been met in the past) to consider an item living or biotic; otherwise, the item is considered to be abiotic (non-living). Viruses Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Virus Characteristics: Indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. Viruses use energy and raw materials to survive. When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and coerces the cell’s machinery to make more virus particles. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell and infect other cells. 2. Viruses sense and respond to changing environments. Viruses are very specific to a particular host cell. Proteins on the surface of the virus recognize proteins on the surface of cells. Viruses only infect cells with the proper proteins. Viruses mutate rapidly. This is one of the reasons that we need new flu vaccines each year. The flu is caused by a virus, and the flu vaccine helps the body recognize and defend against the current flu virus. By next year, the virus has changed so much, that our current immunizations no longer protect against the new virus. For similar reasons, AIDS drugs are changed periodically. If the same drug is used for a long time, the HIV viruses in the patient’s body evolve resistance to this drug. 3. Viruses grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. 4. A virus consist of one or more cells. Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to interact with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication. Recall the structure of a virus and determine if it meets the definition of a cell. All matter can be classified into one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Something is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within or made by a living organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is abiotic. All biotic (living) things: Use energy and matter and to grow Sense and respond to changing environments Reproduce themselves with the help of DNA Consist of one or more cells Many nonliving things might show one or even up to three of the above characteristics. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. ALL four of the above conditions must be met (or have been met in the past) to consider an item living or biotic; otherwise, the item is considered to be abiotic (non-living). Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Virus Characteristics: Indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. Viruses use energy and raw materials to survive. When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and coerces the cell’s machinery to make more virus particles. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell and infect other cells. 2. Viruses sense and respond to changing environments. Viruses are very specific to a particular host cell. Proteins on the surface of the virus recognize proteins on the surface of cells. Viruses only infect cells with the proper proteins. Viruses mutate rapidly. This is one of the reasons that we need new flu vaccines each year. The flu is caused by a virus, and the flu vaccine helps the body recognize and defend against the current flu virus. By next year, the virus has changed so much, that our current immunizations no longer protect against the new virus. For similar reasons, AIDS drugs are changed periodically. If the same drug is used for a long time, the HIV viruses in the patient’s body evolve resistance to this drug. 3. Viruses grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. 4. A virus consist of one or more cells. Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to interact with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication. Recall the structure of a virus and determine if it meets the definition of a cell.   Application Spotlight: Antibiotics Bacteria Until the late 1600s, only large life forms such as plants and animals were known to science. Humans were completely ignorant of the teeming masses of microscopic life forms that inhabit our world. In fact, they didn’t even know that plants and animals are composed of cells. The invention and refinement of the microscope changed all that. Today we are aware of a vast diversity of single-celled, microscopic life forms that interact with us every day. In fact, in and on your body, bacterial cells outnumber your own human cells 10 to one. The bacteria that live on and in you are often critically important to your own health and well being. Bacteria have mutually beneficial relationships with every large organism on Earth and they also cleanse the water we drink and renew the air we breathe. While bacteria can be invaluable partners in the quest for healthy living, it is also well known that bacteria cause disease. Interestingly, this fact was not fully demonstrated until the late 1800s. The earliest measures taken to control bacterial diseases involved improving sanitation using procedures such as sterile surgical techniques, water purification, and sewage treatment. While these strategies helped reduce infections caused by bacteria, it didn’t change the fact that once bacterial infections took hold, they were often fatal. E. coli Under a Microscope These Escherichia coli (E. coli) are seen under a light microscope at a magnification of 1,000x (at this level, a grain of rice would appear to be the size of a bus). Microscopic organisms such as E. coli are essential for keeping us healthy. E. coli and other microbes living in our gut help with proper digestive health. Although some E. coli can be harmful, most are not. Antibiotics In 1928, Alexander Fleming serendipitously discovered the first antibiotic, Penicillin. Fleming was studying bacteria in his lab and was growing different cultures on Petri dishes. He wasn’t very tidy and had accidentally forgotten to clean some Petri dishes before leaving his lab for a monthlong vacation. When Fleming returned to the lab, he noticed that a mold had grown on one of the plates. Looking closely, Fleming saw that his bacteria had not grown well in a zone surrounding the moldy spots. Following up on a hunch, he deliberately added mold to some Petri dishes seeded with bacteria and found that all bacteria were killed near the mold colonies. By the mid-1940s, just in time to help wounded soldiers in World War II, scientists were able to mass-produce a drug derived from the mold discovered by Fleming. Testing Antibiotics Examine this image of a petri dish filled with a light-colored bacterial culture. Each black dot is a spot of antibiotic. Notice the area surrounding the antibiotic in which the bacteria are unable to grow. Fleming had discovered the first antibiotic. Antibiotics are substances that are produced by one type of organism (usually bacteria or mold) and used to kill or suppress other organisms (usually bacteria). Antibiotics have a very specific way of working, which is called their “mode of action.” Penicillin works by interfering with cell wall construction in bacterial cells. The cell wall is a somewhat rigid “shell” that encloses a bacterial cell. In the presence of penicillin, a bacterium’s cell wall cannot be built (or rebuilt) and the cell wall eventually collapses, killing the cell. Cell walls are not present around human cells, or those of any other animal. Therefore, penicillin does not harm our cells — only those of bacteria. This is a general feature of antibiotics. When taken in prescribed doses, antibiotics are usually harmless to humans. During and just after World War II, penicillin was touted as a wonder drug, and many believed the battle against pathogenic (harmful) bacteria would be won in a matter of years. However, the initial success of this antibiotic was relatively short-lived, as bacteria began to evolve resistance to the drug. In any group of bacteria, individuals can have variations in their genetic makeup that help them survive in the presence of specific antibiotic compounds. Over time, if the antibiotic is used, vulnerable types of bacteria die out and the “resistant” types of bacteria reproduce much better than average. Eventually most or all bacteria in the environment are resistant, making the antibiotic useless. Antibiotic Resistance A poster produced by the Chicago Department of Health warning about antibiotic resistant gonorrhea. Chicago, Il Presently, we are facing a growing threat to human health; the overuse and misuse of antibiotics has led to the evolution of “superbugs” — bacterial strains that are resistant to many different types of antibiotics. Such infections are very hard to treat, and can be deadly. Perhaps you have heard about methycillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), which can be picked up in hospitals and places of close body contact (locker rooms, retirement homes). It has evolved a resistance to the antibiotic methycillin. If it penetrates the body, it may dissolve the skin and underlying muscle. One way to reduce the development of antibiotic resistance is to use antibiotics only when necessary, so that there are many antibiotic-free people and places in the environment. This makes it easier for vulnerable strains of bacteria to reproduce, and keeps these strains more common. Within a sick patient, however, the goal of antibiotic therapy is to keep reducing the numbers of harmful bacteria until your immune system can kill off the last (and probably most resistant) holdouts. Therefore it is important to take antibiotics at full dosage and to complete the round of treatment as directed, continuing until it is certain that your bacterial foes have been eliminated. We are not helpless against the rising tide of antibiotic resistance. Today, with our great knowledge of microscopic life and nonliving — but equally dangerous — viruses, we have an unprecedented ability to understand and address health challenges. Until the late 1600s, only large life forms such as plants and animals were known to science. Humans were completely ignorant of the teeming masses of microscopic life forms that inhabit our world. In fact, they didn’t even know that plants and animals are composed of cells. The invention and refinement of the microscope changed all that. Today we are aware of a vast diversity of single-celled, microscopic life forms that interact with us every day. In fact, in and on your body, bacterial cells outnumber your own human cells 10 to one. The bacteria that live on and in you are often critically important to your own health and well being. Bacteria have mutually beneficial relationships with every large organism on Earth and they also cleanse the water we drink and renew the air we breathe. While bacteria can be invaluable partners in the quest for healthy living, it is also well known that bacteria cause disease. Interestingly, this fact was not fully demonstrated until the late 1800s. The earliest measures taken to control bacterial diseases involved improving sanitation using procedures such as sterile surgical techniques, water purification, and sewage treatment. While these strategies helped reduce infections caused by bacteria, it didn’t change the fact that once bacterial infections took hold, they were often fatal. E. coli Under a Microscope These Escherichia coli (E. coli) are seen under a light microscope at a magnification of 1,000x (at this level, a grain of rice would appear to be the size of a bus). Microscopic organisms such as E. coli are essential for keeping us healthy. E. coli and other microbes living in our gut help with proper digestive health. Although some E. coli can be harmful, most are not. In 1928, Alexander Fleming serendipitously discovered the first antibiotic, Penicillin. Fleming was studying bacteria in his lab and was growing different cultures on Petri dishes. He wasn’t very tidy and had accidentally forgotten to clean some Petri dishes before leaving his lab for a monthlong vacation. When Fleming returned to the lab, he noticed that a mold had grown on one of the plates. Looking closely, Fleming saw that his bacteria had not grown well in a zone surrounding the moldy spots. Following up on a hunch, he deliberately added mold to some Petri dishes seeded with bacteria and found that all bacteria were killed near the mold colonies. By the mid-1940s, just in time to help wounded soldiers in World War II, scientists were able to mass-produce a drug derived from the mold discovered by Fleming. Testing Antibiotics Examine this image of a petri dish filled with a light-colored bacterial culture. Each black dot is a spot of antibiotic. Notice the area surrounding the antibiotic in which the bacteria are unable to grow. Fleming had discovered the first antibiotic. Antibiotics are substances that are produced by one type of organism (usually bacteria or mold) and used to kill or suppress other organisms (usually bacteria). Antibiotics have a very specific way of working, which is called their “mode of action.” Penicillin works by interfering with cell wall construction in bacterial cells. The cell wall is a somewhat rigid “shell” that encloses a bacterial cell. In the presence of penicillin, a bacterium’s cell wall cannot be built (or rebuilt) and the cell wall eventually collapses, killing the cell. Cell walls are not present around human cells, or those of any other animal. Therefore, penicillin does not harm our cells — only those of bacteria. This is a general feature of antibiotics. When taken in prescribed doses, antibiotics are usually harmless to humans. During and just after World War II, penicillin was touted as a wonder drug, and many believed the battle against pathogenic (harmful) bacteria would be won in a matter of years. However, the initial success of this antibiotic was relatively short-lived, as bacteria began to evolve resistance to the drug. In any group of bacteria, individuals can have variations in their genetic makeup that help them survive in the presence of specific antibiotic compounds. Over time, if the antibiotic is used, vulnerable types of bacteria die out and the “resistant” types of bacteria reproduce much better than average. Eventually most or all bacteria in the environment are resistant, making the antibiotic useless. Antibiotic Resistance A poster produced by the Chicago Department of Health warning about antibiotic resistant gonorrhea. Chicago, Il Presently, we are facing a growing threat to human health; the overuse and misuse of antibiotics has led to the evolution of “superbugs” — bacterial strains that are resistant to many different types of antibiotics. Such infections are very hard to treat, and can be deadly. Perhaps you have heard about methycillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), which can be picked up in hospitals and places of close body contact (locker rooms, retirement homes). It has evolved a resistance to the antibiotic methycillin. If it penetrates the body, it may dissolve the skin and underlying muscle. One way to reduce the development of antibiotic resistance is to use antibiotics only when necessary, so that there are many antibiotic-free people and places in the environment. This makes it easier for vulnerable strains of bacteria to reproduce, and keeps these strains more common. Within a sick patient, however, the goal of antibiotic therapy is to keep reducing the numbers of harmful bacteria until your immune system can kill off the last (and probably most resistant) holdouts. Therefore it is important to take antibiotics at full dosage and to complete the round of treatment as directed, continuing until it is certain that your bacterial foes have been eliminated. We are not helpless against the rising tide of antibiotic resistance. Today, with our great knowledge of microscopic life and nonliving — but equally dangerous — viruses, we have an unprecedented ability to understand and address health challenges.   What is Life? Biology is the scientific study of life and is the branch of science that studies living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. The subject is vast and includes topics as diverse as acid rain, evolution, and genetically modified foods. In this module, you will investigate the definition of life and explore some of the characteristics of living systems. Biologist study many varieties of living organisms. Clockwise from top left: salmonella bacteria; a koala bear; a fern plant; fly amanita, a poisonous fungus; the red-eyed tree frog; and, a tarantula. Source: Andrew Colvin; August, 2010; Wikipedia. Biologist study how humans and other living organisms interact with their environment. A couple from Northern Thailand. The husband is carrying the stem of a banana-plant, which will be fed to their pigs. Source: Manuel Jobi Weltenbummler, 2007, Wikipedia. Life There are four distinct qualities that are used to determine whether or not something is alive. To be considered alive, something must: Use energy and raw materials to survive. Sense and respond to changing environments. Grow and reproduce with the help of DNA. Consist of one or more cells. Nonliving things can show several of these characteristics. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. However, if even one of these conditions is not met (rock crystals do not consist of cells), the object in question cannot be considered alive. Classification of Matter Matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space. All matter can be classified in one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Matter is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is an abiotic substance. To be classified as biotic, ALL four of the required conditions for life must be met or have been met in the past. Otherwise, that being classified is considered to be abiotic, or non-living. Viruses Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Virus Characteristics: Indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. Viruses use energy and raw materials to survive. When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and coerces the cell’s machinery to make more virus particles. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell and infect other cells. 2. Viruses sense and respond to changing environments. Viruses are very specific to a particular host cell. Proteins on the surface of the virus recognize proteins on the surface of cells. Viruses only infect cells with the proper proteins. Viruses mutate rapidly. This is one of the reasons that we need new flu vaccines each year. The flu is caused by a virus, and the flu vaccine helps the body recognize and defend against the current flu virus. By next year, the virus has changed so much, that our current immunizations no longer protect against the new virus. For similar reasons, AIDS drugs are changed periodically. If the same drug is used for a long time, the HIV viruses in the patient’s body evolve resistance to this drug. 3. Viruses grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. 4. A virus consist of one or more cells. Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to interact with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication. Recall the structure of a virus and determine if it meets the definition of a cell. There are four distinct qualities that are used to determine whether or not something is alive. To be considered alive, something must: Use energy and raw materials to survive. Sense and respond to changing environments. Grow and reproduce with the help of DNA. Consist of one or more cells. Nonliving things can show several of these characteristics. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. However, if even one of these conditions is not met (rock crystals do not consist of cells), the object in question cannot be considered alive. Matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space. All matter can be classified in one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Matter is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is an abiotic substance. To be classified as biotic, ALL four of the required conditions for life must be met or have been met in the past. Otherwise, that being classified is considered to be abiotic, or non-living. Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Virus Characteristics: Indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. Viruses use energy and raw materials to survive. When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and coerces the cell’s machinery to make more virus particles. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell and infect other cells. 2. Viruses sense and respond to changing environments. Viruses are very specific to a particular host cell. Proteins on the surface of the virus recognize proteins on the surface of cells. Viruses only infect cells with the proper proteins. Viruses mutate rapidly. This is one of the reasons that we need new flu vaccines each year. The flu is caused by a virus, and the flu vaccine helps the body recognize and defend against the current flu virus. By next year, the virus has changed so much, that our current immunizations no longer protect against the new virus. For similar reasons, AIDS drugs are changed periodically. If the same drug is used for a long time, the HIV viruses in the patient’s body evolve resistance to this drug. 3. Viruses grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. 4. A virus consist of one or more cells. Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to interact with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication. Recall the structure of a virus and determine if it meets the definition of a cell.   What is Life? Biology is the scientific study of life and is the branch of science that studies living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. The subject is vast and includes topics as diverse as acid rain, evolution, and genetically modified foods. In this module, you will investigate the definition of life and explore some of the characteristics of living systems. Biologist study many varieties of living organisms. Clockwise from top left: salmonella bacteria; a koala bear; a fern plant; fly amanita, a poisonous fungus; the red-eyed tree frog; and, a tarantula. Source: Andrew Colvin; August, 2010; Wikipedia. Biologist study how humans and other living organisms interact with their environment. A couple from Northern Thailand. The husband is carrying the stem of a banana-plant, which will be fed to their pigs. Source: Manuel Jobi Weltenbummler, 2007, Wikipedia. Life There are four distinct qualities that are used to determine whether or not something is alive. To be considered alive, something must: Use energy and raw materials to survive. Sense and respond to changing environments. Grow and reproduce with the help of DNA. Consist of one or more cells. Nonliving things can show several of these characteristics. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. However, if even one of these conditions is not met (rock crystals do not consist of cells), the object in question cannot be considered alive. Classification of Matter Matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space. All matter can be classified in one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Matter is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is an abiotic substance. To be classified as biotic, ALL four of the required conditions for life must be met or have been met in the past. Otherwise, that being classified is considered to be abiotic, or non-living. Viruses Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Virus Characteristics: In this activity we will explore characteristics of viruses that resemble living organisms. Below we discuss each condition for life and how viruses behave. Then, you indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. Living organism use energy and raw materials to survive. When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and coerces the cell’s machinery to make more virus particles. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell and infect other cells. 2. Living organisms sense and respond to changing environments. Viruses are very specific to a particular host cell. Proteins on the surface of the virus recognize proteins on the surface of cells. Viruses only infect cells with the proper proteins. 3. Living organisms grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. 4. Living Organisms consist of one or more cells. Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to interact with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication. Recall the structure of a virus and decide if it meets the definition of a cell. There are four distinct qualities that are used to determine whether or not something is alive. To be considered alive, something must: Use energy and raw materials to survive. Sense and respond to changing environments. Grow and reproduce with the help of DNA. Consist of one or more cells. Nonliving things can show several of these characteristics. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. However, if even one of these conditions is not met (rock crystals do not consist of cells), the object in question cannot be considered alive. Matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space. All matter can be classified in one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Matter is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is an abiotic substance. To be classified as biotic, ALL four of the required conditions for life must be met or have been met in the past. Otherwise, that being classified is considered to be abiotic, or non-living. Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Virus Characteristics: In this activity we will explore characteristics of viruses that resemble living organisms. Below we discuss each condition for life and how viruses behave. Then, you indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. Living organism use energy and raw materials to survive. When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and coerces the cell’s machinery to make more virus particles. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell and infect other cells. 2. Living organisms sense and respond to changing environments. Viruses are very specific to a particular host cell. Proteins on the surface of the virus recognize proteins on the surface of cells. Viruses only infect cells with the proper proteins. 3. Living organisms grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. 4. Living Organisms consist of one or more cells. Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to interact with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication. Recall the structure of a virus and decide if it meets the definition of a cell.   Application Spotlight: Viruses Viruses create a unique challenge to the definition of life. Viruses show some of the characteristics of life, but not all. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat for some viruses and a membrane coat for others. They lack the machinery for growth and reproduction. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Virus Characteristics: In this activity we will explore characteristics of viruses that resemble living organisms. Below we discuss each condition for life and how viruses behave. Then, you indicate whether the following statements about viruses are true or false. 1. Living organism use energy and raw materials to survive. When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and coerces the cell’s machinery to make more virus particles. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell and infect other cells. 2. Living organisms sense and respond to changing environments. Viruses are very specific to a particular host cell. Proteins on the surface of the virus recognize proteins on the surface of cells. Viruses only infect cells with the proper proteins. 3. Living organisms grow and reproduce themselves with the help of DNA. Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. 4. Living Organisms consist of one or more cells. Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to interact with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication. Recall the structure of a virus and decide if it meets the definition of a cell.   Application Spotlight: Viruses Have you ever gotten sick with the flu and said something like, “I’ve come down with a bug,” or “I’ve got the flu bug”? In fact, the flu (short for influenza) is not really caused by a “bug” at all. It is caused by a virus, and there is some controversy in the scientific community regarding whether or not viruses are alive. But what are viruses, really? And how would you determine whether or not they are alive? In this lesson, you’ll learn more about what viruses are, so you can figure out if they are actually alive. Components of a Virus Viruses contain genetic material within a protein or membrane coat. Viruses contain genetic information in the form of either DNA or RNA. The genetic information is surrounded by a protein coat called a capsid. Some viruses also have a membrane structure surrounding their genetic information. Viruses are tiny particles and they lack the machinery necessary for growth and reproduction. In order to reproduce, a virus must infect a host cell and hijack the host cell’s machinery. In other words, a virus cannot reproduce without using the tools of another cell. So are viruses alive? There is much debate on the subject. Complete the following activity and draw your own conclusions. Virus Characteristics: In this activity we will explore the characteristics of viruses. First, we discuss some aspect of how viruses function in relation to the conditions for life. Then, you will indicate whether or not a virus exhibits each condition for life. Characteristic of life: Life uses energy and raw materials to grow and reproduce. Fact 1: When viruses infect cells, the viral DNA enters the cell and uses the cell’s machinery to make more viruses. The newly synthesized viruses then leave the cell to infect other cells. Characteristic of life: Life evolves. Fact 2: Viruses mutate rapidly. This is one of the reasons there is a new flu vaccine each year. The flu is caused by a virus, and the flu vaccine helps the body recognize and defend itself against the current flu virus. By next year, the virus population will have changed so much that the current immunizations will no longer work. Characteristic of life: Living organisms grow, develop, and reproduce with the help of DNA. Fact 3: Many viruses use DNA as their genetic material. Other viruses use a related molecule called RNA. Cells also use RNA as a helper molecule to DNA. Characteristic of life: Living organisms consist of one or more cells. Fact 4: Cells are defined by a boundary called a membrane. This membrane is made from an oily molecule (called a phospholipid) as well as proteins, carbohydrates, and other molecules. The purpose of this boundary is to define the inside and outside of the cell and to enable interactions with the environment. Cells also contain all of the machinery for growth and replication.   Unit Summary: Cell Division Cell division is an essential life process that ensures the passage of genetic information from one generation to the next. Mitosis results in two identical diploid cells and occurs in somatic cells. Meiosis results in four unique haploid cells and takes place in the gonads. Two different processes are necessary because they serve two different functions. Mitosis allows for growth of an organism and replacement of cells. Meiosis allows for sexual reproduction. Take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. Consider whether you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of the learning objectives. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this final activity, you will rate your ability to perform each learning outcome. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions you still have regarding the content to your instructor when you are finished. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this final activity, you will rate your ability to perform each learning outcome. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions you still have regarding the content to your instructor when you are finished.   Unit Summary: Cell Division Cell division is an essential life process that ensures the passage of genetic information from one generation to the next. Mitosis results in two identical diploid cells and occurs in somatic cells. Meiosis results in four unique haploid cells and takes place in the gonads. Two different processes are necessary because they serve two different functions. Mitosis allows for growth of an organism and replacement of cells. Meiosis allows for sexual reproduction. Take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. Consider whether you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of the learning objectives. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this final activity, you will rate your ability to perform each learning outcome. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions you still have regarding the content to your instructor when you are finished. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this final activity, you will rate your ability to perform each learning outcome. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions you still have regarding the content to your instructor when you are finished.   Unit Summary: The Cell In this unit, we learned about the cell, which is the fundamental unit of all living systems. Cells can be divided into two major groups: prokaryotes (cells without a nucleus) and eukaryotes (cells containing a nucleus). Eukaryotic cells are larger and contain organelles that are specifically related to different cellular functions. Two types of eukaryotic cells are plant cells and animal cells. Because they are both eukaryotes, both cell types have nuclei. However, there are several structures that distinguish the two types of cells. For example, plant cells have chloroplasts and a cell wall. Animal cells lack both of these structures. All cells have a cell membrane that defines the boundary between the cell’s interior and the external environment. The membrane mediates communication to the external environment. The cell membrane has a unique chemical structure that enables the passage of particles into and out of the cell. Some particles are able to simply diffuse across the membrane. In other situations, special proteins are required to help facilitate the movement. When particles move against a concentration gradient, energy is required. In the Metabolism unit, you'll explore energy and learn about out how cells generate and use this energy. Review the learning objectives for this unit. Do you think you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of these objectives? If so, you will be ready for the assessment. If not, consider reviewing content related to these objectives before attempting the assessment. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each objective. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions to your instructor when you are finished. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each objective. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions to your instructor when you are finished.   Unit Introduction: The Cell In the "Introduction to Chemistry" unit, you learned about general chemical principles of the building blocks (atoms and molecules) for living and non-living entities. In the "Biological Macromolecules" unit you learned that the structure and functions of the main biomolecules, and in particular, proteins. Those biomolecules build up the different structures of the cell. In this unit we will start exploring a new level of complexity in biological systems: the cell. As you have learned before, living or biotic cells and organisms possess a set of characteristics that non-living or abiotic things do not. Life is considered an emergent property, and the cellular level is the first to present it. In this module we will cover briefly the currently accepted hypothesis of how cells evolved and discuss the pillars of the cell theory. We will explore the different types of cells, and learn about their structures and functions. You will be able to relate structural characteristics of the biomolecules studied before with the structure and functions of the parts of the cell. While all cells have similar structures, there are differences between the more ancient prokaryotic and the more recent eukaryotic cells. Also, there are structures that are only present in plant or animal cells. In multicellular organisms the specialization of cells is striking, in both structure and function. Living cells grow and divide according to a series of timed events called the cell cycle. Cells also maintain continuous communication with their surroundings while keeping their individuality; this is facilitated by the particular structure and function of the cell membrane. In summary, you will learn about the structural characteristics of different types of cells, and will start exploring some of their functional characteristics, such as the cellular life cycle and the ways in which cells communication with their surroundings.   Cell Theory The microscopes we use today are far more advanced than those used in the 1600s by Antony van Leeuwenhoek, a Dutch shopkeeper who had great skill in crafting lenses. Despite the limitations of his now-ancient lenses, van Leeuwenhoek observed the movements of bacteria, other single-celled organisms and sperm. He labeled these moving microbes “animalcules”. In a 1665 publication called Micrographia, experimental scientist, Robert Hooke, coined the term “cell” for the box-like structures he observed when viewing cork tissue through a lens. He also confirmed van Leeuwenhoek’s 1678 discovery of bacteria and protozoa. Later advances in lenses and microscope construction enabled other scientists to see some components inside cells. By the late 1830s, scientists had closely examined many plant and animal tissues under the microscope. Comparing notes, botanist, Matthias Schleiden, and zoologist, Theodor Schwann, realized that cells were found in every tissue they had studied. They proposed the Unified Cell Theory, which states that all living things are composed of one or more cells, and that the cell is the basic unit of life. You, for instance, are made of approximately 60 trillion cells, all of which originated from one single cell, the fertilized cell produced when an egg from your mother was fertilized by the sperm cell from your father. However, there were still controversies between those who believed in the existence of a vital force able to “create” life (spontaneous generation) and those who supported biogenesis, which claims that living cells can arise only from pre-existing cells. A series of experiments by Louis Pasteur and Rudolf Virchow showed that living organisms could only come from other living organisms. The currently accepted tenets for the Cell Theory are: All known living things are made up of one or more cells. All cells arise from pre-existing cells by division. The cell is the fundamental unit of structure and function in all living organisms. Uterine cervix cells, viewed through a light microscope, from a Pap smear. Normal cells are on the left. The cells on the right are infected with the human papillomavirus. Notice that the infected cells are larger, paler, and two of them have two nuclei instead of one, the normal number.   Cell Structures In spite of the fact that all cells share certain characteristics, there is incredible diversity in structure and function among different cells. The human body alone contains trillions of cells of more than 200 different types, each with a unique structure and function. Cells are categorized into two types: Prokaryotes are small, simple, single-cell organisms; bacteria are the most prevalent kind. Eukaryotes are larger, and most often they are multicellular organisms, including plants, animals, and fungi. Eukaryotic cells are about 15 times wider than the typical prokaryotic cell, and up to 1,000 times greater in volume. The images below show examples of a prokaryote and single-celled eukaryotic organisms. Prokaryotic MRSA Bacteria Cells Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (commonly known as MRSA) is an antibiotic-resistant of bacteria, shown here in yellow. These bacteria are being ingested by a white blood cell, shown here in purplish blue. Source: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases /National Institutes of Health (NIAID/NIH) Eukaryotic Single-Celled Organisms These two cells are both single-celled organisms, also known as protists. The Didinium (bottom right) is stalking the Paramecium (top left), and will eventually catch and eat the larger cell. Image by: Gregory Antipa (San Francisco State University). You have already learned that cells are made up of organelles, molecules, atoms, and subatomic particles. These parts assemble into various structures to perform specific functions within the cell. An organelle is a specialized structure formed when a specific set of molecules bond, providing a subunit that performs a particular function within the cell. Many, but not all, organelles are structures enclosed by a membrane. Some structures are the same for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell types and some structures are different. The remainder of this page will focus on a handful of structures that all cells have in common. Then, later in this module, you will learn about the structures and characteristics of each cell type in more detail. Structures Common to All Cells There are several parts (referred to as structures) common to all cells regardless of the cell type. All cells are surrounded by a cell membrane. The cell membrane provides a barrier between the interior and exterior of the cell and it regulates the flow of substances in and out of the cell. All cells also have cytoplasm, which is the fluid that occupies the space inside the cell. Cytoplasm is the space in which the chemical reactions that enable life take place. All cells also contain DNA, which is often called the “master molecule” of the cell because it contains the instructions for synthesizing all of the cell’s proteins. As you already know, proteins are the raw materials used to build many important structures in living systems. Finally, both prokaryotes and eukaryotes contain ribosomes. Ribosomes are the molecular machines that use the instructions contained in the DNA to build all the proteins needed by the cell. The following table summarizes the major structures found in cells and the primary function of each structure. In addition, it lists the types of cells in which each structure is found. (There are many other important structures and features of cells. The table below shows only the most important structures.) The Most Important Structures Found in Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Cells By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC The essential differences and similarities among prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells are: All cells contain DNA (chromosomes), membranes, cytoplasm, and ribosomes. Prokaryotes do NOT contain a nucleus or any other organelle. Chloroplasts exist only in eukaryotic plant cells. Check your understanding of cell structures with the following activity and then learn more about the structures and characteristics of each cell type on the next page. There are several parts (referred to as structures) common to all cells regardless of the cell type. All cells are surrounded by a cell membrane. The cell membrane provides a barrier between the interior and exterior of the cell and it regulates the flow of substances in and out of the cell. All cells also have cytoplasm, which is the fluid that occupies the space inside the cell. Cytoplasm is the space in which the chemical reactions that enable life take place. All cells also contain DNA, which is often called the “master molecule” of the cell because it contains the instructions for synthesizing all of the cell’s proteins. As you already know, proteins are the raw materials used to build many important structures in living systems. Finally, both prokaryotes and eukaryotes contain ribosomes. Ribosomes are the molecular machines that use the instructions contained in the DNA to build all the proteins needed by the cell. The following table summarizes the major structures found in cells and the primary function of each structure. In addition, it lists the types of cells in which each structure is found. (There are many other important structures and features of cells. The table below shows only the most important structures.) The Most Important Structures Found in Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Cells By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC The essential differences and similarities among prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells are: All cells contain DNA (chromosomes), membranes, cytoplasm, and ribosomes. Prokaryotes do NOT contain a nucleus or any other organelle. Chloroplasts exist only in eukaryotic plant cells. Check your understanding of cell structures with the following activity and then learn more about the structures and characteristics of each cell type on the next page.   Cell Structures In spite of the fact that all cells share certain characteristics, there is incredible diversity in structure and function among different cells. The human body alone contains trillions of cells of more than 200 different types, each with a unique structure and function. Cells are categorized into two types: Prokaryotes are small, simple, single-cell organisms; bacteria are the most prevalent kind. Eukaryotes are larger, and most often they are multicellular organisms, including plants, animals, and fungi. Eukaryotic cells are about 15 times wider than the typical prokaryotic cell, and up to 1,000 times greater in volume. The images below show examples of a prokaryote and single-celled eukaryotic organisms. Prokaryotic MRSA Bacteria Cells Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (commonly known as MRSA) is an antibiotic-resistant of bacteria, shown here in yellow. These bacteria are being ingested by a white blood cell, shown here in purplish blue. Source: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases /National Institutes of Health (NIAID/NIH) Eukaryotic Single-Celled Organisms These two cells are both single-celled organisms, also known as protists. The Didinium (bottom right) is stalking the Paramecium (top left), and will eventually catch and eat the larger cell. Image by: Gregory Antipa (San Francisco State University). You have already learned that cells are made up of organelles, molecules, atoms, and subatomic particles. These parts assemble into various structures to perform specific functions within the cell. An organelle is a specialized structure formed when a specific set of molecules bond, providing a subunit that performs a particular function within the cell. Many, but not all, organelles are structures enclosed by a membrane. Some structures are the same for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell types and some structures are different. The remainder of this page will focus on a handful of structures that all cells have in common. Then, later in this module, you will learn about the structures and characteristics of each cell type in more detail. Structures Common to All Cells There are several parts (referred to as structures) common to all cells regardless of the cell type. All cells are surrounded by a cell membrane. The cell membrane provides a barrier between the interior and exterior of the cell and it regulates the flow of substances in and out of the cell. All cells also have cytoplasm, which is the fluid that occupies the space inside the cell. Cytoplasm is the space in which the chemical reactions that enable life take place. All cells also contain DNA, which is often called the “master molecule” of the cell because it contains the instructions for synthesizing all of the cell’s proteins. As you already know, proteins are the raw materials used to build many important structures in living systems. Finally, both prokaryotes and eukaryotes contain ribosomes. Ribosomes are the molecular machines that use the instructions contained in the DNA to build all the proteins needed by the cell. The following table summarizes the major structures found in cells and the primary function of each structure. In addition, it lists the types of cells in which each structure is found. (There are many other important structures and features of cells. The table below shows only the most important structures.) The Most Important Structures Found in Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Cells By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC The essential differences and similarities among prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells are: All cells contain DNA (chromosomes), membranes, cytoplasm, and ribosomes. Prokaryotes do NOT contain a nucleus or any other organelle. Chloroplasts exist only in eukaryotic plant cells. Check your understanding of cell structures with the following activity and then learn more about the structures and characteristics of each cell type on the next page. Cell to Cell Attachments Individual cells are able to form tissues by participating in cell-to-cell attachments with neighboring cells. There are several parts (referred to as structures) common to all cells regardless of the cell type. All cells are surrounded by a cell membrane. The cell membrane provides a barrier between the interior and exterior of the cell and it regulates the flow of substances in and out of the cell. All cells also have cytoplasm, which is the fluid that occupies the space inside the cell. Cytoplasm is the space in which the chemical reactions that enable life take place. All cells also contain DNA, which is often called the “master molecule” of the cell because it contains the instructions for synthesizing all of the cell’s proteins. As you already know, proteins are the raw materials used to build many important structures in living systems. Finally, both prokaryotes and eukaryotes contain ribosomes. Ribosomes are the molecular machines that use the instructions contained in the DNA to build all the proteins needed by the cell. The following table summarizes the major structures found in cells and the primary function of each structure. In addition, it lists the types of cells in which each structure is found. (There are many other important structures and features of cells. The table below shows only the most important structures.) The Most Important Structures Found in Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Cells By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC The essential differences and similarities among prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells are: All cells contain DNA (chromosomes), membranes, cytoplasm, and ribosomes. Prokaryotes do NOT contain a nucleus or any other organelle. Chloroplasts exist only in eukaryotic plant cells. Check your understanding of cell structures with the following activity and then learn more about the structures and characteristics of each cell type on the next page.   Cell Theory The microscopes we use today are far more advanced than those used in the 1600s by Antony van Leeuwenhoek, a Dutch shopkeeper who had great skill in crafting lenses. Despite the limitations of his now-ancient lenses, van Leeuwenhoek observed the movements of bacteria, other single-celled organisms, and sperm. He labeled these moving microbes “animalcules.” In a 1665 publication called Micrographia, experimental scientist Robert Hooke coined the term “cell” for the box-like structures he observed when viewing cork tissue through a lens. Later, he confirmed van Leeuwenhoek’s 1678 discovery of bacteria and protozoa. Later advances in lenses and microscope construction enabled other scientists to see some components inside cells. By the late 1830s, scientists had closely examined many plant and animal tissues under the microscope. Comparing notes, botanist Matthias Schleiden and zoologist Theodor Schwann realized that cells were found in every tissue they had studied. They proposed the Unified Cell Theory, which states that all living things are composed of one or more cells, and that the cell is the basic unit of life. You, for instance, are made of approximately 60 trillion cells, all of which originated from one single cell, the fertilized cell produced when an egg from your mother was fertilized by the sperm cell from your father. However, there were still controversies between those who believed in the existence of a vital force able to “create” life (spontaneous generation) and those who supported biogenesis, which claims that living cells can arise only from pre-existing cells. A series of experiments by Louis Pasteur and Rudolf Virchow showed that living organisms could only come from other living organisms. The currently accepted tenets of Cell Theory are: All known living things are composed of one or more cells. All new cells are created by pre-existing cells dividing in two and reproducing. The cell is the most basic unit of structure and function in all living organisms. Modern cell theorists assert that all functions essential to life occur within the cell and that during cell division the cell contains and transmits to the next generation the information necessary to conduct and regulate cell functioning. Using special technology, biologists can capture images of living cells. The yellow and blue fibers in these cells are made of proteins and the green circles in the middle are nuclei (singular: nucleus), which hold the cell’s DNA. Image by: Torsten Wittmann, NIGMS Image Gallery.   Cell Theory The microscopes we use today are far more advanced than those used in the 1600s by Antony van Leeuwenhoek, a Dutch shopkeeper who had great skill in crafting lenses. Despite the limitations of his now-ancient lenses, van Leeuwenhoek observed the movements of bacteria, other single-celled organisms, and sperm. He labeled these moving microbes “animalcules.” In a 1665 publication called Micrographia, experimental scientist Robert Hooke coined the term “cell” for the box-like structures he observed when viewing cork tissue through a lens. Later, he confirmed van Leeuwenhoek’s 1678 discovery of bacteria and protozoa. Later advances in lenses and microscope construction enabled other scientists to see some components inside cells. By the late 1830s, scientists had closely examined many plant and animal tissues under the microscope. Comparing notes, botanist Matthias Schleiden and zoologist Theodor Schwann realized that cells were found in every tissue they had studied. They proposed the Unified Cell Theory, which states that all living things are composed of one or more cells, and that the cell is the basic unit of life. You, for instance, are made of approximately 60 trillion cells, all of which originated from one single cell, the fertilized cell produced when an egg from your mother was fertilized by the sperm cell from your father. However, there were still controversies between those who believed in the existence of a vital force able to “create” life (spontaneous generation) and those who supported biogenesis, which claims that living cells can arise only from pre-existing cells. A series of experiments by Louis Pasteur and Rudolf Virchow showed that living organisms could only come from other living organisms. The currently accepted tenets of Cell Theory are: All known living things are composed of one or more cells. All new cells are created by pre-existing cells dividing in two and reproducing. The cell is the most basic unit of structure and function in all living organisms. Modern cell theorists assert that all functions essential to life occur within the cell and that during cell division the cell contains and transmits to the next generation the information necessary to conduct and regulate cell functioning. Using special technology, biologists can capture images of living cells. The yellow and blue fibers in these cells are made of proteins and the green circles in the middle are nuclei (singular: nucleus), which hold the cell’s DNA. Image by: Torsten Wittmann, NIGMS Image Gallery.   Prokaryotes and Eukaryotes Every cell on Earth belongs to one of two categories: Prokaryotic cells Eukaryotic cells Prokaryotic cells were the first cells to appear on our planet. All prokaryotes alive today are unicellular (one-celled), and include bacteria (singular form is "bacterium") and archaea (singular form is "archaean"). Prokaryotes are small cells that don't have a nucleus or membrane-bound organelles. Eukaryotic cells appeared 1.5 billion years after prokaryotes. The main difference between the two is that eukaryotes have a central control structure, called the nucleus (plural form is "nuclei"), where DNA is housed. In prokaryotes, the main DNA molecule (bacterial chromosome) is present in a region called the nucleoid, but the nucleoid lacks a surrounding membrane. Smaller DNA molecules called plasmids can be also found in prokaryotes. Prokaryotic DNA is circular, in contrast to the linear structure of eukaryotic DNA. Both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells have a cell or plasma membrane, which surrounds and defines the inner environment of the cell. The cell membrane is made of a phospholipid bilayer containing a variety of proteins and additional components. The cell membrane is responsible for mediating interactions between the cell and its environment. The Cell Membrane module contains a more detailed discussion of the structure and function of the cell membrane. Typical Animal Cell (Eukaryotic) Bacteria Cell (Prokaryotic) Note: these images are not drawn to scale. A typical eukaryotic cell is 10 times bigger than the typical prokaryotic cell. Prokaryotic cells have a simpler structure than eukaryotic cells, and they range in diameter from 0.1 to 5.0 µm (micrometers). Most prokaryotes have a protective layer called the cell wall that is made of peptidoglycan, which is a combination of polysaccharides and amino acids. Prokaryotes also have a cell membrane and cytoplasm. Many prokaryotes also have external appendages such as a flagellum. The cytoplasm contains the DNA and the ribosomes, where protein synthesis takes place. Several types of RNA are involved in the process of protein synthesis, and ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is the main component of ribosomes. Both prokaryotes and eukaryotes have ribosomes, but they are different. Prokaryotic ribosomes are smaller and lighter than their eukaryotic counterparts. Comparison of cell sizes Relative sizes of cells and their contents. Notice that the scale shown is logarithmic. Note that certain abiotic entities such as viruses and prions (infectious proteins causing diseases such as mad cow disease) are also studied in biology. However, they are not cells, and while they may exhibit certain characteristics of life, they do so only in certain conditions.   Prokaryotes and Eukaryotes Every cell on Earth belongs to one of two categories: Prokaryotic cells Eukaryotic cells Prokaryotic cells were the first cells to appear on our planet. All prokaryotes alive today are unicellular (one-celled), and include bacteria (singular form is "bacterium") and archaea (singular form is "archaean"). Prokaryotes are small cells that don't have a nucleus or membrane-bound organelles. Eukaryotic cells appeared 1.5 billion years after prokaryotes. The main difference between the two is that eukaryotes have a central control structure, called the nucleus (plural form is "nuclei"), where DNA is housed. In prokaryotes, the main DNA molecule (bacterial chromosome) is present in a region called the nucleoid, but the nucleoid lacks a surrounding membrane. Smaller DNA molecules called plasmids can be also found in prokaryotes. Prokaryotic DNA is circular, in contrast to the linear structure of eukaryotic DNA. Both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells have a cell or plasma membrane, which surrounds and defines the inner environment of the cell. The cell membrane is made of a phospholipid bilayer containing a variety of proteins and additional components. The cell membrane is responsible for mediating interactions between the cell and its environment. The Cell Membrane module contains a more detailed discussion of the structure and function of the cell membrane. Typical Animal Cell (Eukaryotic) Bacteria Cell (Prokaryotic) Note: these images are not drawn to scale. A typical eukaryotic cell is 10 times bigger than the typical prokaryotic cell. Prokaryotic cells have a simpler structure than eukaryotic cells, and they range in diameter from 0.1 to 5.0 µm (micrometers). Most prokaryotes have a protective layer called the cell wall that is made of peptidoglycan, which is a combination of polysaccharides and amino acids. Prokaryotes also have a cell membrane and cytoplasm. Many prokaryotes also have external appendages such as a flagellum. The cytoplasm contains the DNA and the ribosomes, where protein synthesis takes place. Several types of RNA are involved in the process of protein synthesis, and ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is the main component of ribosomes. Both prokaryotes and eukaryotes have ribosomes, but they are different. Prokaryotic ribosomes are smaller and lighter than their eukaryotic counterparts. Comparison of cell sizes Relative sizes of cells and their contents. Notice that the scale shown is logarithmic. Note that certain abiotic entities such as viruses and prions (infectious proteins causing diseases such as mad cow disease) are also studied in biology. However, they are not cells, and while they may exhibit certain characteristics of life, they do so only in certain conditions.   Eukaryotic Cell Components Eukaryotes comprise plant and animals, but also fungi (singular fungus, for example molds and mushrooms) as well as protists, a group of single-celled eukaryotes. One simplified but useful analogy of a cell is that of a factory. Just as in a factory, cells have walls, a planning center where the product blueprints are stored, a source of energy, an assembly line for production, packaging and shipping facilities, storage facilities etc. In this module we will explore the different components of the cells and examine their specialized functions. The Plant Cell as a Factory. Eukaryotic cells contain compartments with specialized functions called organelles. Organelles are surrounded by membranes. The nucleus is the control center, where the blueprints of all protein products are stored. The nucleus is surrounded by a double-membrane called the nuclear envelope, and contains chromatin, a protein-DNA complex. When the cell is dividing, chromatin condenses and becomes visible as chromosomes. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. 22 pairs are autosomal chromosomes and are numbered 1-22. The other pair is referred to as the sex chromosomes. Females have two X chromosomes, while males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. There are several structures found within the nucleus. The most visible of these is the nucleolus. In contrast to other organelles, the nucleolus is not bound by a membrane, but it is an aggregate of molecules where ribosomes are assembled. Most organelles are found in the cytoplasm, which is the substance found between the nucleus and the cell membrane. Mitochondria (singular: mitochondrion) and chloroplasts (only in plant cells) are the organelles responsible for providing energy for all cellular functions. Both structures are similar to bacteria in many ways. In fact, it is now thought that they are derived from ancient bacteria that lived within larger primitive eukaryotic cells. That is, they were endosymbionts: organisms that live within a larger host. They carried out energy functions that gave their hosts an advantage. Eventually, they became fully integrated within the larger host cell. Today, both mitochondria and chloroplasts retain their own circular DNA. They also reproduce by division, just like bacteria! However, they cannot live outside the eukaryotic cell. Some prokaryotes related to mitochondria and chloroplasts have remained free-living. Although they do not have mitochondria or chloroplasts within their cells, they are able to carry out similar energy functions. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a series of sacs and tubes, is the assembly line for synthesis of proteins and other cellular components. In eukaryotes, ribosomes are associated with the ER, forming the rough ER due to its beaded appearance. The smooth ER (without ribosomes) can have different functions depending on the cell type, but it is often the site for synthesis of lipids. The Golgi apparatus is the packaging and shipping center of the cell, where structural components are delivered to different parts of cells. Vesicles and vacuoles are membrane-bound sacs that function in storage and transport. Vesicles are specialized for transport and some other functions. Their membranes can fuse with the plasma membrane, thus emptying their contents into the extracellular space. Vesicles also may fuse with the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, thus emptying their contents into those organelles. Lysosomes are vesicles found only in animal cells. Lysosomes contain powerful digestive enzymes that can recycle cellular parts or destroy external invaders. Vacuoles are specialized mainly for storage. Their membranes do not fuse with the membranes of other cellular components. The cytoskeleton is formed by a series of protein filaments, and is both a scaffold for the cell structure and a framework for many activities from cell movement to cell division. Among the protein filaments that form the cytoskeleton, actin has a prominent role in cell movement, maintaining cell shape and connection to other cells, as well as intracellular transport. A barrel-shaped structure only present in animal cells is the centriole, which plays a role in the spatial organization of the cell and cell division. Centrioles are formed by microtubules, another filament type of the cytoskeleton. Microtubules form also appendages such as the flagellum of the sperm cell and the cilia of the cells of the respiratory system. The Cell Below is a diagram of an eukaryotic (animal) cell. Many of the cell components are hyper links that will provide you with an image showing these same structures in a living cell.   Eukaryotic Cell Components All eukaryotes contain a nucleus. Animals and plants are familiar eukaryotes; in fact, all large complex organisms are eukaryotes. Fungi (the singular form is "fungus"), which include molds and mushrooms, are also eukaryotes. There are even single-celled eukaryotes, called protists. All eukaryotes have a nucleus, but they can also have other cell structures in common. One simplified but useful analogy of a cell is that of a factory. Just as in a factory, cells have a wall or membrane providing a protective enclosure, a planning center where the product blueprints are stored, a source of energy, an assembly line for production, packaging and shipping facilities, storage facilities, etc. The Plant Cell as a Factory In this visual, a plant cell is compared to a factory. Each functional unit of the factory is compared to a cellular organelle. Even though cells can have many different functions, the function often relies on the production of different types of proteins. In this way, a cell is like a protein-producing factory. We will refer back to this analogy as we discuss the functions of different cellular organelles. Organelles Eukaryotic cells are complex and organized into membrane-bound compartments, called organelles, that perform specialized functions. Organelles carry out specialized tasks such as energy production, protein synthesis, reproduction, and processing of nutrients and waste. The various cell types differ in the arrangement, number, and structure of organelles. Additionally, the number of organelles of each type in a given cell varies depending on the function of the cell. Organelles are similar to the specialized work areas in the factory above. Because a cell is a protein-producing factory, we can take a closer look at the different organelles and see how they function toward this goal. Nucleus: Control Center The nucleus is the control center of the cell and it stores the DNA, which contains the instructions for how to build all the protein products required by the cell. The nucleus is like the factory command center, which stores the instructions needed to build its product. A single molecule of DNA is called a chromosome. The chromosomes are like the different books in the factory’s control center. The nucleus is surrounded by a double-layered membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope is studded with pores that allow information from inside the nucleus to enter the cytoplasm. You can imagine that a factory command center would not be very effective if it did not have doors or windows through which to pass information to the rest of the factory. Ribosome: Protein Production There are several important structures found within the nucleus. The most visible of these is the nucleolus. In contrast to other organelles, the nucleolus is not bound by a membrane. Instead, it is an aggregate of molecules where ribosomes, another type of nonmembranous organelle, are assembled. Most organelles, including ribosomes (after they are built in the nucleus), are found in the cytoplasm, which is the substance found between the nucleus and the cell membrane (number eight in the cell factory diagram). The cytoplasm is analogous to the factory floor, where all the work takes place. Mitochondria: Power Plant All this work requires energy. Most factories need some sort of power plant that converts fuel into a form of energy that can be captured to do work. In the cell, this job is accomplished by organelles called mitochondria (singular form is "mitochondrion"), which take fuel in the form of sugar (glucose) and convert it to usable energy — ATP. Chloroplasts: Sugar Production Plant cells have an additional type of organelle — chloroplasts, which exist only in plant cells — involved in energy transfer. The chloroplasts provide sugar. Chloroplasts capture energy from the sun and use that energy to build sugar molecules. Mitochondria then harvest the energy stored in the sugar molecules and use it to do work. The chloroplasts and mitochondria are the organelles responsible for providing energy for all cellular functions. Endoplasmic Reticulum: Product Assembly Factories often have assembly lines that put together the company’s product. In the cell, proteins and other cellular components are put together, or assembled, by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a series of sacs and tubes. In eukaryotes, ribosomes are associated with the "rough ER," which gets its name from the beaded appearance that the ribosomes give it. The smooth ER (without ribosomes) can have different functions depending on the cell type, but it is often the site for the synthesis of lipids. Vacuoles: Storage The Golgi apparatus is the packaging and shipping center of the cell, where the proteins that were built by the ER assembly line are delivered to different parts of the cell, or in multicellular organisms, to different parts of the body. Often the Golgi apparatus packages proteins in vesicles and vacuoles, which are membrane-bound sacs that function in storage and transport. Vesicles are specialized for transport and some other functions. Their membranes can fuse with the plasma membrane, allowing them to empty their contents into the extracellular space. Vesicles also may fuse with the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, allowing them to empty their contents into those organelles. Lysosomes are specialized vesicles found only in animal cells. Lysosomes contain powerful digestive enzymes that can recycle cellular parts or destroy external invaders. Vacuoles are specialized mainly for storage. Their membranes do not fuse with the membranes of other cellular components. Other Structures in Eukaryotes Eukaryotic cells include other important structures not illustrated in our factory diagram; they are the cytoskeleton, actin, centrioles, microtubules, flagellum, and cilia. The cytoskeleton is formed by a series of protein filaments, and is both a scaffold for the cell structure and a framework for many cellular activities, including movement and cell division. In our factory analogy, the cytoskeleton is represented by structural beams, as well as any transport infrastructure, like hallways, elevator tracks, or even small railroads. In the cell, the cytoskeleton is made up of many different protein filaments. One important filament is actin, which has a prominent role in cell movement, maintaining cell shape, and connection to other cells, as well as intracellular transport. A barrel-shaped structure only present in animal cells is the centriole, which plays a role in the spatial organization of the cell and cell division. Centrioles are formed by microtubules, another filament type of the cytoskeleton. Microtubules also form appendages such as the flagellum of the sperm cell and the cilia of the cells of the respiratory system. Eukaryotic Cell: Structures and Functions Below is a diagram of a eukaryotic animal cell. Click on any of the organelles in the list below. You will see: (a) the location of the selected organelle highlighted in the cell diagram; (b) a microscopic photograph of the structure in a cell; and (c) the function or purpose of the organelle described in the text box. Click on the question mark (?) for help that illustrates this procedure. Take a few moments to explore the location of structures in a eukaryotic animal cell and review their functions. Organelles and Their Function Do you think you can specify the functions of major organelles in eukaryotic cells? Click on the following activity to check your understanding. Eukaryotic cells are complex and organized into membrane-bound compartments, called organelles, that perform specialized functions. Organelles carry out specialized tasks such as energy production, protein synthesis, reproduction, and processing of nutrients and waste. The various cell types differ in the arrangement, number, and structure of organelles. Additionally, the number of organelles of each type in a given cell varies depending on the function of the cell. Organelles are similar to the specialized work areas in the factory above. Because a cell is a protein-producing factory, we can take a closer look at the different organelles and see how they function toward this goal. Nucleus: Control Center The nucleus is the control center of the cell and it stores the DNA, which contains the instructions for how to build all the protein products required by the cell. The nucleus is like the factory command center, which stores the instructions needed to build its product. A single molecule of DNA is called a chromosome. The chromosomes are like the different books in the factory’s control center. The nucleus is surrounded by a double-layered membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope is studded with pores that allow information from inside the nucleus to enter the cytoplasm. You can imagine that a factory command center would not be very effective if it did not have doors or windows through which to pass information to the rest of the factory. Ribosome: Protein Production There are several important structures found within the nucleus. The most visible of these is the nucleolus. In contrast to other organelles, the nucleolus is not bound by a membrane. Instead, it is an aggregate of molecules where ribosomes, another type of nonmembranous organelle, are assembled. Most organelles, including ribosomes (after they are built in the nucleus), are found in the cytoplasm, which is the substance found between the nucleus and the cell membrane (number eight in the cell factory diagram). The cytoplasm is analogous to the factory floor, where all the work takes place. Mitochondria: Power Plant All this work requires energy. Most factories need some sort of power plant that converts fuel into a form of energy that can be captured to do work. In the cell, this job is accomplished by organelles called mitochondria (singular form is "mitochondrion"), which take fuel in the form of sugar (glucose) and convert it to usable energy — ATP. Chloroplasts: Sugar Production Plant cells have an additional type of organelle — chloroplasts, which exist only in plant cells — involved in energy transfer. The chloroplasts provide sugar. Chloroplasts capture energy from the sun and use that energy to build sugar molecules. Mitochondria then harvest the energy stored in the sugar molecules and use it to do work. The chloroplasts and mitochondria are the organelles responsible for providing energy for all cellular functions. Endoplasmic Reticulum: Product Assembly Factories often have assembly lines that put together the company’s product. In the cell, proteins and other cellular components are put together, or assembled, by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a series of sacs and tubes. In eukaryotes, ribosomes are associated with the "rough ER," which gets its name from the beaded appearance that the ribosomes give it. The smooth ER (without ribosomes) can have different functions depending on the cell type, but it is often the site for the synthesis of lipids. Vacuoles: Storage The Golgi apparatus is the packaging and shipping center of the cell, where the proteins that were built by the ER assembly line are delivered to different parts of the cell, or in multicellular organisms, to different parts of the body. Often the Golgi apparatus packages proteins in vesicles and vacuoles, which are membrane-bound sacs that function in storage and transport. Vesicles are specialized for transport and some other functions. Their membranes can fuse with the plasma membrane, allowing them to empty their contents into the extracellular space. Vesicles also may fuse with the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, allowing them to empty their contents into those organelles. Lysosomes are specialized vesicles found only in animal cells. Lysosomes contain powerful digestive enzymes that can recycle cellular parts or destroy external invaders. Vacuoles are specialized mainly for storage. Their membranes do not fuse with the membranes of other cellular components. Eukaryotic cells include other important structures not illustrated in our factory diagram; they are the cytoskeleton, actin, centrioles, microtubules, flagellum, and cilia. The cytoskeleton is formed by a series of protein filaments, and is both a scaffold for the cell structure and a framework for many cellular activities, including movement and cell division. In our factory analogy, the cytoskeleton is represented by structural beams, as well as any transport infrastructure, like hallways, elevator tracks, or even small railroads. In the cell, the cytoskeleton is made up of many different protein filaments. One important filament is actin, which has a prominent role in cell movement, maintaining cell shape, and connection to other cells, as well as intracellular transport. A barrel-shaped structure only present in animal cells is the centriole, which plays a role in the spatial organization of the cell and cell division. Centrioles are formed by microtubules, another filament type of the cytoskeleton. Microtubules also form appendages such as the flagellum of the sperm cell and the cilia of the cells of the respiratory system. Do you think you can specify the functions of major organelles in eukaryotic cells? Click on the following activity to check your understanding.   Eukaryotic Cell Components All eukaryotes contain a nucleus. Animals and plants are familiar eukaryotes; in fact, all large complex organisms are eukaryotes. Fungi (the singular form is "fungus"), which include molds and mushrooms, are also eukaryotes. There are even single-celled eukaryotes, called protists. All eukaryotes have a nucleus, but they can also have other cell structures in common. One simplified but useful analogy of a cell is that of a factory. Just as in a factory, cells have a wall or membrane providing a protective enclosure, a planning center where the product blueprints are stored, a source of energy, an assembly line for production, packaging and shipping facilities, storage facilities, etc. The Plant Cell as a Factory In this visual, a plant cell is compared to a factory. Each functional unit of the factory is compared to a cellular organelle. Even though cells can have many different functions, the function often relies on the production of different types of proteins. In this way, a cell is like a protein-producing factory. We will refer back to this analogy as we discuss the functions of different cellular organelles. Organelles Eukaryotic cells are complex and organized into membrane-bound compartments, called organelles, that perform specialized functions. Organelles carry out specialized tasks such as energy production, protein synthesis, reproduction, and processing of nutrients and waste. The various cell types differ in the arrangement, number, and structure of organelles. Additionally, the number of organelles of each type in a given cell varies depending on the function of the cell. Organelles are similar to the specialized work areas in the factory above. Because a cell is a protein-producing factory, we can take a closer look at the different organelles and see how they function toward this goal. Nucleus: Control Center The nucleus is the control center of the cell and it stores the DNA, which contains the instructions for how to build all the protein products required by the cell. The nucleus is like the factory command center, which stores the instructions needed to build its product. A single molecule of DNA is called a chromosome. The chromosomes are like the different books in the factory’s control center. The nucleus is surrounded by a double-layered membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope is studded with pores that allow information from inside the nucleus to enter the cytoplasm. You can imagine that a factory command center would not be very effective if it did not have doors or windows through which to pass information to the rest of the factory. Ribosome: Protein Production There are several important structures found within the nucleus. The most visible of these is the nucleolus. In contrast to other organelles, the nucleolus is not bound by a membrane. Instead, it is an aggregate of molecules where ribosomes, another type of nonmembranous organelle, are assembled. Most organelles, including ribosomes (after they are built in the nucleus), are found in the cytoplasm, which is the substance found between the nucleus and the cell membrane (number eight in the cell factory diagram). The cytoplasm is analogous to the factory floor, where all the work takes place. Mitochondria: Power Plant All this work requires energy. Most factories need some sort of power plant that converts fuel into a form of energy that can be captured to do work. In the cell, this job is accomplished by organelles called mitochondria (singular form is "mitochondrion"), which take fuel in the form of sugar (glucose) and convert it to usable energy — ATP. Chloroplasts: Sugar Production Plant cells have an additional type of organelle — chloroplasts, which exist only in plant cells — involved in energy transfer. The chloroplasts provide sugar. Chloroplasts capture energy from the sun and use that energy to build sugar molecules. Mitochondria then harvest the energy stored in the sugar molecules and use it to do work. The chloroplasts and mitochondria are the organelles responsible for providing energy for all cellular functions. Endoplasmic Reticulum: Product Assembly Factories often have assembly lines that put together the company’s product. In the cell, proteins and other cellular components are put together, or assembled, by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a series of sacs and tubes. In eukaryotes, ribosomes are associated with the "rough ER," which gets its name from the beaded appearance that the ribosomes give it. The smooth ER (without ribosomes) can have different functions depending on the cell type, but it is often the site for the synthesis of lipids. Vacuoles: Storage The Golgi apparatus is the packaging and shipping center of the cell, where the proteins that were built by the ER assembly line are delivered to different parts of the cell, or in multicellular organisms, to different parts of the body. Often the Golgi apparatus packages proteins in vesicles and vacuoles, which are membrane-bound sacs that function in storage and transport. Vesicles are specialized for transport and some other functions. Their membranes can fuse with the plasma membrane, allowing them to empty their contents into the extracellular space. Vesicles also may fuse with the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, allowing them to empty their contents into those organelles. Lysosomes are specialized vesicles found only in animal cells. Lysosomes contain powerful digestive enzymes that can recycle cellular parts or destroy external invaders. Vacuoles are specialized mainly for storage. Their membranes do not fuse with the membranes of other cellular components. Other Structures in Eukaryotes Eukaryotic cells include other important structures not illustrated in our factory diagram; they are the cytoskeleton, actin, centrioles, microtubules, flagellum, and cilia. The cytoskeleton is formed by a series of protein filaments, and is both a scaffold for the cell structure and a framework for many cellular activities, including movement and cell division. In our factory analogy, the cytoskeleton is represented by structural beams, as well as any transport infrastructure, like hallways, elevator tracks, or even small railroads. In the cell, the cytoskeleton is made up of many different protein filaments. One important filament is actin, which has a prominent role in cell movement, maintaining cell shape, and connection to other cells, as well as intracellular transport. A barrel-shaped structure only present in animal cells is the centriole, which plays a role in the spatial organization of the cell and cell division. Centrioles are formed by microtubules, another filament type of the cytoskeleton. Microtubules also form appendages such as the flagellum of the sperm cell and the cilia of the cells of the respiratory system. Eukaryotic Cell: Structures and Functions Below is a diagram of a eukaryotic animal cell. Click on any of the organelles in the list below. You will see: (a) the location of the selected organelle highlighted in the cell diagram; (b) a microscopic photograph of the structure in a cell; and (c) the function or purpose of the organelle described in the text box. Click on the question mark (?) for help that illustrates this procedure. Take a few moments to explore the location of structures in a eukaryotic animal cell and review their functions. Organelles and Their Function Do you think you can specify the functions of major organelles in eukaryotic cells? Click on the following activity to check your understanding. Eukaryotic cells are complex and organized into membrane-bound compartments, called organelles, that perform specialized functions. Organelles carry out specialized tasks such as energy production, protein synthesis, reproduction, and processing of nutrients and waste. The various cell types differ in the arrangement, number, and structure of organelles. Additionally, the number of organelles of each type in a given cell varies depending on the function of the cell. Organelles are similar to the specialized work areas in the factory above. Because a cell is a protein-producing factory, we can take a closer look at the different organelles and see how they function toward this goal. Nucleus: Control Center The nucleus is the control center of the cell and it stores the DNA, which contains the instructions for how to build all the protein products required by the cell. The nucleus is like the factory command center, which stores the instructions needed to build its product. A single molecule of DNA is called a chromosome. The chromosomes are like the different books in the factory’s control center. The nucleus is surrounded by a double-layered membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope is studded with pores that allow information from inside the nucleus to enter the cytoplasm. You can imagine that a factory command center would not be very effective if it did not have doors or windows through which to pass information to the rest of the factory. Ribosome: Protein Production There are several important structures found within the nucleus. The most visible of these is the nucleolus. In contrast to other organelles, the nucleolus is not bound by a membrane. Instead, it is an aggregate of molecules where ribosomes, another type of nonmembranous organelle, are assembled. Most organelles, including ribosomes (after they are built in the nucleus), are found in the cytoplasm, which is the substance found between the nucleus and the cell membrane (number eight in the cell factory diagram). The cytoplasm is analogous to the factory floor, where all the work takes place. Mitochondria: Power Plant All this work requires energy. Most factories need some sort of power plant that converts fuel into a form of energy that can be captured to do work. In the cell, this job is accomplished by organelles called mitochondria (singular form is "mitochondrion"), which take fuel in the form of sugar (glucose) and convert it to usable energy — ATP. Chloroplasts: Sugar Production Plant cells have an additional type of organelle — chloroplasts, which exist only in plant cells — involved in energy transfer. The chloroplasts provide sugar. Chloroplasts capture energy from the sun and use that energy to build sugar molecules. Mitochondria then harvest the energy stored in the sugar molecules and use it to do work. The chloroplasts and mitochondria are the organelles responsible for providing energy for all cellular functions. Endoplasmic Reticulum: Product Assembly Factories often have assembly lines that put together the company’s product. In the cell, proteins and other cellular components are put together, or assembled, by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a series of sacs and tubes. In eukaryotes, ribosomes are associated with the "rough ER," which gets its name from the beaded appearance that the ribosomes give it. The smooth ER (without ribosomes) can have different functions depending on the cell type, but it is often the site for the synthesis of lipids. Vacuoles: Storage The Golgi apparatus is the packaging and shipping center of the cell, where the proteins that were built by the ER assembly line are delivered to different parts of the cell, or in multicellular organisms, to different parts of the body. Often the Golgi apparatus packages proteins in vesicles and vacuoles, which are membrane-bound sacs that function in storage and transport. Vesicles are specialized for transport and some other functions. Their membranes can fuse with the plasma membrane, allowing them to empty their contents into the extracellular space. Vesicles also may fuse with the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, allowing them to empty their contents into those organelles. Lysosomes are specialized vesicles found only in animal cells. Lysosomes contain powerful digestive enzymes that can recycle cellular parts or destroy external invaders. Vacuoles are specialized mainly for storage. Their membranes do not fuse with the membranes of other cellular components. Eukaryotic cells include other important structures not illustrated in our factory diagram; they are the cytoskeleton, actin, centrioles, microtubules, flagellum, and cilia. The cytoskeleton is formed by a series of protein filaments, and is both a scaffold for the cell structure and a framework for many cellular activities, including movement and cell division. In our factory analogy, the cytoskeleton is represented by structural beams, as well as any transport infrastructure, like hallways, elevator tracks, or even small railroads. In the cell, the cytoskeleton is made up of many different protein filaments. One important filament is actin, which has a prominent role in cell movement, maintaining cell shape, and connection to other cells, as well as intracellular transport. A barrel-shaped structure only present in animal cells is the centriole, which plays a role in the spatial organization of the cell and cell division. Centrioles are formed by microtubules, another filament type of the cytoskeleton. Microtubules also form appendages such as the flagellum of the sperm cell and the cilia of the cells of the respiratory system. Do you think you can specify the functions of major organelles in eukaryotic cells? Click on the following activity to check your understanding.   Plant and Animal Cells Both animal and plant cells are eukaryotic cells. However, they both contain some specialized structures. Plants have chloroplasts and a rigid cell wall. Chloroplasts are unique organelles able to harvest solar energy to make sugars from carbon dioxide. This process, called photosynthesis, is the basis of life as we know it on our planet. This process is possible due to the presence of special pigments, called chlorophylls, which are found in the chloroplasts. The cell wall is a porous structure that protects, supports, and gives shape to the cell. The plant cell wall is different from that of prokaryotes, and it is mainly formed by polysaccharides, particularly cellulose. Plant cells can also have a central vacuole, which can be a place of storage, degradation, defense, and even physical support for the cell. Even though plants have a cell wall, this does not mean they don’t have a cell membrane. All cells have a cell membrane. Some, like plant cells, just have a cell wall as well. Eukaryotic Plant Cell A typical eukaryotic plant cell. Compare this to the image of the animal cell. Notice that each plant cell has a cell wall, chloroplasts, and a central vacuole, but lacks cilia, lysosomes, and a centrosome. Eukaryotic Animal Cell A typical eukaryotic animal cell. No cell looks exactly like this one, but this figure orients you to the organelles and other components discussed. Cilia are not present in all animal cells, but are in some. The structures shown above are parts of a “generic” eukaryotic cell. While most eukaryotic cells will present these structures, variations occur depending on the function of the cell. Think about cars — while most cars have the same parts, there will be differences between a sedan and an off-road vehicle. Among animal cells, extreme examples of specialization include red blood cells (containers of hemoglobin to transport oxygen; see picture on the left) and nerve cells (dedicated to transmission and integration of signals; picture on the right). Blood Cells Human red blood cell, platelet, and white blood cell. Observe the flattened disk shape of the red blood cell, which allows it to easily pass through small blood vessels. Nerve Cell Mouse neurons (nerve cells). Observe the many projections connecting cells with each other, allowing communication and transmission of signals.   Cell Cycle As you recall from learning about the cell theory, every cell in your body comes from the division of a previously existing cell. How do cells "know" when to divide? What factors control this process? These are vitally important questions with implications for how we grow, heal, and reproduce. They are also central to understanding cancer - and for developing cancer treatments. Eukaryotic cells grow and reproduce through a series of phases called the cell cycle. During interphase the cell increases its mass (G1 phase), duplicates its DNA (S phase), and prepares for cell division (G2 phase). Certain cells, said to be in phase G0, do not divide further after maturing. Many nerve cells (neurons) function this way. If the brain or spine is injured the damaged cells are not readily replaced and the injury may be permanent. Most body cells can divide. This allows you to replace lost skin cells, for example. During the mitotic phase (M phase), the cell divides its nucleus (mitosis) and its cytoplasm (cytokinesis) and two identical daughter cells are produced. In multicellular organisms, the cells dedicated to sexual reproduction (gametes) are produced by a different type of cell division called meiosis. Cell division is a carefully regulated process. There are “check-points” between phases, in which the cell “self-checks.” Through molecular interactions, the cell makes sure that it is ready to divide; for example, it checks to see that its DNA has not been damaged. If all criteria are met, the cell moves forward through the cell cycle. Normal cells usually divide only a limited number of times, and usually do so when stimulated by certain molecular signals. For example, if you move to higher altitude, your body will produce more red blood cells in order to supply enough oxygen despite the thinner air. Cancer cells, on the other hand, have lost the normal cell cycle controls, and therefore can divide indefinitely. Diagram depicting the cell cycle, showing Interphase (I) with its phases G1, S, and G2. G0 corresponds to cells that do not divide further, such as some nerve cells. M (red) corresponds to mitosis (with the four mitotic phases of nuclear division designated below in colors yellow, gold, tan, and orange) and cytokinesis (not labeled).   What Is a Cell? Summary Summary In this module, you learned about the characteristics that all cells have in common, like the cell membrane. You also learned about some of the different kinds of cells. You learned about eukaryotic cells, which have DNA contained in the nucleus, and prokaryotic cells which lack a nucleus altogether (though they do not lack DNA). In the next module, you’ll take a closer look at the cell membrane, which is the structure that defines a cell by separating its internal environment from the external environment. Take some time to review these key terms. When you’re ready, take the module quiz. Key Terms Review the following key terms discussed in this module. chloroplast chromatin chromosome cilium cytoplasm eukaryotic cells flagellum golgi apparatus mitochondrion nucleoid nucleus prokaryotic cells ribosome vesicle In this module, you learned about the characteristics that all cells have in common, like the cell membrane. You also learned about some of the different kinds of cells. You learned about eukaryotic cells, which have DNA contained in the nucleus, and prokaryotic cells which lack a nucleus altogether (though they do not lack DNA). In the next module, you’ll take a closer look at the cell membrane, which is the structure that defines a cell by separating its internal environment from the external environment. Take some time to review these key terms. When you’re ready, take the module quiz. Review the following key terms discussed in this module. chloroplast chromatin chromosome cilium cytoplasm eukaryotic cells flagellum golgi apparatus mitochondrion nucleoid nucleus prokaryotic cells ribosome vesicle   Membranes — Osmosis Cells continually encounter changes in their external environment. Most cells have a similar blend of solutes within them, but external fluids can vary dramatically, from pure water to brine or syrup. What will happen if there is a strong concentration gradient between a cell's interior and the fluid outside? As you know, molecules will tend to move down their concentration gradients until equilibrium is reached. You might think that solutes will flow into our out of the cell until the solute concentrations are equal across the membrane. However, not all molecules can pass through the cell membrane. The plasma membrane (lipid bilayer) is significantly less permeable to most solutes than it is to water. Therefore the WATER tends to flow in a way that establishes an equal concentration of solutes on either side of the membrane. The water flows down its own concentration gradient, with a net movement toward the region that has a higher concentration of solutes. This movement of water across a semipermeable membrane in response to an imbalance of solute is called osmosis. Osmosis in an Animal Cell The figure shows red blood cells immersed in three different solutions. The black dots represent sodium ions. Inside the red blood cell, the concentration of sodium is equal under all three conditions (shown as four dots). In the hypertonic solution, the concentration of sodium is higher outside (8 dots) than inside the cell. Water tends to leave the cell, flowing down its own concentration gradient. In the isotonic solution, the sodium concentration is the same inside and outside the cell. Water molecules enter and leave the cell at the same rate and the system is in equilibrium. In the hypotonic solution, there is a relatively low concentration of sodium (two dots) on the outside of the cell. Water is more concentrated outside the cell and tends to flow in. As water enters, sodium is diluted inside the cell, bringing the cytoplasm's sodium concentration closer to that of the external solution. But if too much water enters, the cell can burst (lyse). Cells may find themselves in three different sorts of solutions. The terms isotonic, hypertonic, and hypotonic refer to the concentration of solutes outside the cell relative to the solute concentration inside the cell. In an isotonic solution, solutes and water are equally concentrated within and outside the cell. The cell is bathed in a solution with a solute concentration that is similar to its own cytoplasm. Many medical preparations (saline solutions for nasal sprays, eye drops, and intravenous drugs) are designed to be isotonic to our cells. A hypotonic solution has a low solute concentration and a high concentration of water compared to the cell's cytoplasm. Distilled (pure) water is the ultimate hypotonic solution. If a cell is placed in a hypotonic solution, it will tend to gain water. The solutes will "stay put" within the cell, but water molecules will diffuse such that their net flow is toward the area with a higher concentration of solutes. A hypertonic solution has a high solute concentration (lower water concentration) compared to the cell cytoplasm. Very salty or sugary solutions (brines or syrups) are hypertonic to living cells. If a cell is placed in such a solution, water tends to flow spontaneously out of the cell. Osmosis In a clinical setting, it is very important that IV (intravenous) fluids are isotonic to the patient’s blood cells. This will ensure that blood cells maintain their physical integrity because they neither shrink (due to hypertonic fluids) nor swell (due to hypotonic solutions). Water flowing out of these cells will cause the cells to shrivel. If water moves into animal cells, they will swell and can burst. Cells with a cell wall (such as plant and bacterial cells) respond somewhat differently to these situations. The cell wall will keep these cell from bursting in a hypotonic solution. In a hypotonic solution, the pressure created by the rigidity of the cell wall forces water back out of the cell. In fact, plant cells do best in slightly hypotonic solutions, which results in plump, healthy cells. Isotonic solutions result in somewhat limp plant cells. Plant cells are most sensitive to hypertonic solutions. In hypertonic solutions, the plasma membrane tears as it shrivels away from the cell wall. This solution will kill the cells.   What Is Mitosis? Growing from a single fertilized egg to an adult organism requires many rounds of cell division. Before cell division, a cell must copy its genome so that each new daughter cell receives a full set of DNA. This DNA replication occurs in the synthesis (S) stage of the cell cycle just prior to mitosis. The process of mitosis sorts the DNA equally into two separate nuclei. The process of mitosis is divided into the following steps or phases: Prophase and Prometaphase: The cell prepares to sort the chromosomes. Metaphase: Chromosomes are moved to the center of the cell. Anaphase: Chromosomes are sorted. Telophase: The new nuclei are formed. Each new cell gets one of these nuclei during the process of cytokinesis. At the end of mitosis and cytokinesis, each new daughter cell should have the identical genetic makeup of the parent cell. Mitosis of a single diploid cell will result in two diploid cells with identical genomes, unless a mutation or other error occurred. Mitosis of a haploid cell will result in two identical haploid cells. These cells can go through the process again to reproduce. Interphase: Duplicates DNA Let’s begin with a diploid cell that is 2N = 4. This cell has two copies of each of its two chromosomes. During the S phase of interphase, the cell replicates its DNA. This results in two sister chromatids that are attached to each other at the centromere. The chromosomes have not condensed enough at this point to be visible with a microscope. Centrosomes are also formed during interphase. Centrosomes are used to identify the poles of the cell during the division process; these poles determine where the chromosomes will be sent. Structure of Cell Prepared for Mitosis Perform the following activity to build a cell ready for mitosis. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Growing from a single fertilized egg to an adult organism requires many rounds of cell division. Before cell division, a cell must copy its genome so that each new daughter cell receives a full set of DNA. This DNA replication occurs in the synthesis (S) stage of the cell cycle just prior to mitosis. The process of mitosis sorts the DNA equally into two separate nuclei. The process of mitosis is divided into the following steps or phases: Prophase and Prometaphase: The cell prepares to sort the chromosomes. Metaphase: Chromosomes are moved to the center of the cell. Anaphase: Chromosomes are sorted. Telophase: The new nuclei are formed. Each new cell gets one of these nuclei during the process of cytokinesis. At the end of mitosis and cytokinesis, each new daughter cell should have the identical genetic makeup of the parent cell. Mitosis of a single diploid cell will result in two diploid cells with identical genomes, unless a mutation or other error occurred. Mitosis of a haploid cell will result in two identical haploid cells. These cells can go through the process again to reproduce. Let’s begin with a diploid cell that is 2N = 4. This cell has two copies of each of its two chromosomes. During the S phase of interphase, the cell replicates its DNA. This results in two sister chromatids that are attached to each other at the centromere. The chromosomes have not condensed enough at this point to be visible with a microscope. Centrosomes are also formed during interphase. Centrosomes are used to identify the poles of the cell during the division process; these poles determine where the chromosomes will be sent.   Interphase Let’s begin with a diploid cell that is 2N = 4. This cell has two copies of each of its two chromosomes. During the S phase of interphase, the cell replicates its DNA. This results in X-shaped chromosomes that are attached at the centromere. The chromosomes have not condensed enough at this point to be visible with a microscope. Centrosomes are also formed during interphase. Centrosomes are used to identify the poles of the cell during the division process; these poles determine where the chromosomes will be sent.   The Phases of Mitosis Prophase Mitosis begins when DNA condenses into chromosomes visible under a light microscope. This packaging of the chromosomes into condensed bundles makes them easier to sort, but it inhibits protein synthesis. Therefore, it is essential that the cell has produced all necessary proteins prior to the start of this process. The nucleoli disappear and the nuclear envelope begins to disintegrate. This allows cellular components to act upon the chromosomes (the chromosomes are no longer tucked away inside the nucleus). Centrioles, contained in the centrosomes formed during interphase, are areas where microtubules originate in order to help sort and organize the sister chromatids. The centrioles begin to move to the opposite poles of the cell. This will determine where the chromosomes go when they are sorted. Microtubules are disassembled from the cytoplasm and reassembled into the mitotic spindle. This structure will move the chromosomes to the proper location. This stage is called “prophase,” because it is a preparatory stage. “Pro-” means "before;" “phase” means “stage.” So, this is the stage before the process gets into full swing. Prometaphase Prometaphase is the stage between prophase and metaphase. During this stage, the nuclear envelope is fully broken down. This allows the microtubules to attach to the centromeres of the chromosomes. The centromere is the region in the center of the X-shaped chromosomes. Each half of the X is a copy of the same DNA strand. The centromere contains proteins that hold together these two copies and can bind to the microtubules. The proteins on the centromere are called the kinetochore, and the microtubules that attach to them are called kinetochore microtubules. The microtubules that are not attached to the kinetochores are called nonkinetochore microtubules. Metaphase Metaphase is so named because the chromosomes line up in the middle of the cell. The root “meta-” means “middle.” The kinetochore microtubules are used to orient the chromosomes in the center of the cell. Each chromosome will be attached to two kinetochore microtubules. Each of these kinetochore microtubules will be attached to one of the two centrioles. Anaphase During anaphase, the kinetochore proteins break down the microtubules attached to them and the connections between each copy of the chromosome will be broken down. This causes the individual chromosomes to move to opposite poles of the cell. The root “ana-” refers to “apart”; the chromosomes are moving apart from each other. The nonkinetochore microtubules from one pole also push on the nonkinetochore microtubules from the other pole. This causes the cell to elongate. By the end of anaphase, each pole of the cell contains an identical set of chromosomes. Telophase In telophase, the nuclei at each pole form again. The chromosomes are now separated into two identical nuclei. This is the end of mitosis. However, the two nuclei are still in a single cell. The next step will separate the cytoplasm into two cells. “Telo” comes from the Greek word for “end.” Cytokinesis Cytokinesis is the separation of the cytoplasm into two new daughter cells. Animal cells divide when proteins pinch in the center of the cell until it separates into two. This region is called the cleavage furrow. Plant cells divide when new cell wall components are laid down in the center of the cell. This is called the cell plate. Mitosis begins when DNA condenses into chromosomes visible under a light microscope. This packaging of the chromosomes into condensed bundles makes them easier to sort, but it inhibits protein synthesis. Therefore, it is essential that the cell has produced all necessary proteins prior to the start of this process. The nucleoli disappear and the nuclear envelope begins to disintegrate. This allows cellular components to act upon the chromosomes (the chromosomes are no longer tucked away inside the nucleus). Centrioles, contained in the centrosomes formed during interphase, are areas where microtubules originate in order to help sort and organize the sister chromatids. The centrioles begin to move to the opposite poles of the cell. This will determine where the chromosomes go when they are sorted. Microtubules are disassembled from the cytoplasm and reassembled into the mitotic spindle. This structure will move the chromosomes to the proper location. This stage is called “prophase,” because it is a preparatory stage. “Pro-” means "before;" “phase” means “stage.” So, this is the stage before the process gets into full swing. Prometaphase is the stage between prophase and metaphase. During this stage, the nuclear envelope is fully broken down. This allows the microtubules to attach to the centromeres of the chromosomes. The centromere is the region in the center of the X-shaped chromosomes. Each half of the X is a copy of the same DNA strand. The centromere contains proteins that hold together these two copies and can bind to the microtubules. The proteins on the centromere are called the kinetochore, and the microtubules that attach to them are called kinetochore microtubules. The microtubules that are not attached to the kinetochores are called nonkinetochore microtubules. Metaphase is so named because the chromosomes line up in the middle of the cell. The root “meta-” means “middle.” The kinetochore microtubules are used to orient the chromosomes in the center of the cell. Each chromosome will be attached to two kinetochore microtubules. Each of these kinetochore microtubules will be attached to one of the two centrioles. During anaphase, the kinetochore proteins break down the microtubules attached to them and the connections between each copy of the chromosome will be broken down. This causes the individual chromosomes to move to opposite poles of the cell. The root “ana-” refers to “apart”; the chromosomes are moving apart from each other. The nonkinetochore microtubules from one pole also push on the nonkinetochore microtubules from the other pole. This causes the cell to elongate. By the end of anaphase, each pole of the cell contains an identical set of chromosomes. In telophase, the nuclei at each pole form again. The chromosomes are now separated into two identical nuclei. This is the end of mitosis. However, the two nuclei are still in a single cell. The next step will separate the cytoplasm into two cells. “Telo” comes from the Greek word for “end.” Cytokinesis is the separation of the cytoplasm into two new daughter cells. Animal cells divide when proteins pinch in the center of the cell until it separates into two. This region is called the cleavage furrow. Plant cells divide when new cell wall components are laid down in the center of the cell. This is called the cell plate.   The Phases of Mitosis Prophase Mitosis begins when DNA condenses into chromosomes visible under a light microscope. This packaging of the chromosomes into condensed bundles makes them easier to sort, but it inhibits protein synthesis. Therefore, it is essential that the cell has produced all necessary proteins prior to the start of this process. The nucleoli disappear and the nuclear envelope begins to disintegrate. This allows cellular components to act upon the chromosomes (the chromosomes are no longer tucked away inside the nucleus). Centrioles, contained in the centrosomes formed during interphase, are areas where microtubules originate in order to help sort and organize the sister chromatids. The centrioles begin to move to the opposite poles of the cell. This will determine where the chromosomes go when they are sorted. Microtubules are disassembled from the cytoplasm and reassembled into the mitotic spindle. This structure will move the chromosomes to the proper location. This stage is called “prophase,” because it is a preparatory stage. “Pro-” means "before;" “phase” means “stage.” So, this is the stage before the process gets into full swing. Prometaphase Prometaphase is the stage between prophase and metaphase. During this stage, the nuclear envelope is fully broken down. This allows the microtubules to attach to the centromeres of the chromosomes. The centromere is the region in the center of the X-shaped chromosomes. Each half of the X is a copy of the same DNA strand. The centromere contains proteins that hold together these two copies and can bind to the microtubules. The proteins on the centromere are called the kinetochore, and the microtubules that attach to them are called kinetochore microtubules. The microtubules that are not attached to the kinetochores are called nonkinetochore microtubules. Metaphase Metaphase is so named because the chromosomes line up in the middle of the cell. The root “meta-” means “middle.” The kinetochore microtubules are used to orient the chromosomes in the center of the cell. Each chromosome will be attached to two kinetochore microtubules. Each of these kinetochore microtubules will be attached to one of the two centrioles. Anaphase During anaphase, the kinetochore proteins break down the microtubules attached to them and the connections between each copy of the chromosome will be broken down. This causes the individual chromosomes to move to opposite poles of the cell. The root “ana-” refers to “apart”; the chromosomes are moving apart from each other. The nonkinetochore microtubules from one pole also push on the nonkinetochore microtubules from the other pole. This causes the cell to elongate. By the end of anaphase, each pole of the cell contains an identical set of chromosomes. Telophase In telophase, the nuclei at each pole form again. The chromosomes are now separated into two identical nuclei. This is the end of mitosis. However, the two nuclei are still in a single cell. The next step will separate the cytoplasm into two cells. “Telo” comes from the Greek word for “end.” Cytokinesis Cytokinesis is the separation of the cytoplasm into two new daughter cells. Animal cells divide when proteins pinch in the center of the cell until it separates into two. This region is called the cleavage furrow. Plant cells divide when new cell wall components are laid down in the center of the cell. This is called the cell plate. Cell Characteristics at Phases of Mitosis Microtubules: Roles During Mitosis Mitosis begins when DNA condenses into chromosomes visible under a light microscope. This packaging of the chromosomes into condensed bundles makes them easier to sort, but it inhibits protein synthesis. Therefore, it is essential that the cell has produced all necessary proteins prior to the start of this process. The nucleoli disappear and the nuclear envelope begins to disintegrate. This allows cellular components to act upon the chromosomes (the chromosomes are no longer tucked away inside the nucleus). Centrioles, contained in the centrosomes formed during interphase, are areas where microtubules originate in order to help sort and organize the sister chromatids. The centrioles begin to move to the opposite poles of the cell. This will determine where the chromosomes go when they are sorted. Microtubules are disassembled from the cytoplasm and reassembled into the mitotic spindle. This structure will move the chromosomes to the proper location. This stage is called “prophase,” because it is a preparatory stage. “Pro-” means "before;" “phase” means “stage.” So, this is the stage before the process gets into full swing. Prometaphase is the stage between prophase and metaphase. During this stage, the nuclear envelope is fully broken down. This allows the microtubules to attach to the centromeres of the chromosomes. The centromere is the region in the center of the X-shaped chromosomes. Each half of the X is a copy of the same DNA strand. The centromere contains proteins that hold together these two copies and can bind to the microtubules. The proteins on the centromere are called the kinetochore, and the microtubules that attach to them are called kinetochore microtubules. The microtubules that are not attached to the kinetochores are called nonkinetochore microtubules. Metaphase is so named because the chromosomes line up in the middle of the cell. The root “meta-” means “middle.” The kinetochore microtubules are used to orient the chromosomes in the center of the cell. Each chromosome will be attached to two kinetochore microtubules. Each of these kinetochore microtubules will be attached to one of the two centrioles. During anaphase, the kinetochore proteins break down the microtubules attached to them and the connections between each copy of the chromosome will be broken down. This causes the individual chromosomes to move to opposite poles of the cell. The root “ana-” refers to “apart”; the chromosomes are moving apart from each other. The nonkinetochore microtubules from one pole also push on the nonkinetochore microtubules from the other pole. This causes the cell to elongate. By the end of anaphase, each pole of the cell contains an identical set of chromosomes. In telophase, the nuclei at each pole form again. The chromosomes are now separated into two identical nuclei. This is the end of mitosis. However, the two nuclei are still in a single cell. The next step will separate the cytoplasm into two cells. “Telo” comes from the Greek word for “end.” Cytokinesis is the separation of the cytoplasm into two new daughter cells. Animal cells divide when proteins pinch in the center of the cell until it separates into two. This region is called the cleavage furrow. Plant cells divide when new cell wall components are laid down in the center of the cell. This is called the cell plate.   Prophase Mitosis begins when DNA condenses into chromosomes visible under the light microscope. This packaging of the chromosomes into condensed bundles makes them easier to sort, but it inhibits protein synthesis. Therefore, it is essential that the cell has produced all necessary proteins prior to the start of this process. The nucleoli disappear and the nuclear envelope begins to disintegrate. This allows cellular components to act upon the chromosomes (the chromosomes are no longer tucked away inside the nucleus). The centrioles begin to move to the opposite poles of the cell. This will determine where the chromosomes go when they are sorted. Microtubules are disassembled from the cytoplasm and reassembled into the mitotic spindle. This structure will move the chromosomes to the proper location. This stage is called “prophase” because it is a preparatory stage. “Pro-” means before, “phase” means “stage”. So, this is the stage before the process gets into full swing. Activity#2: DIGT –Cell-region-function   Application Spotlight: Cancer Cell Cycle Regulation The cell cycle is highly regulated. There are many checkpoints that are used to determine if the cell should or should not continue through the stages of the cell cycle. Many different environmental and internal signals are involved in determining whether or not a cell will complete division. Checkpoints occur throughout the cell cycle. These checkpoints control whether or not a cell will continue dividing. Image adapted from a diagram by LadyofHats: Mariana Ruiz Villarreal in the public domain. A healthy cell has many genes that produce proteins involved in the process of regulating cell division. Some of these genes produce proteins that encourage cell division. These proteins would be produced under circumstances where the cell should divide. For example, if you scrape your knee, the cells in that area need to be replaced. Other genes produce proteins that inhibit cell division. For example, healthy human cells grown on a petri dish would stop growing when they filled the dish. This is also an essential component of regulation. Cells that continue dividing when they should not can cause cancer. Cancer cells do not respond to proper regulatory signals and divide when they should not divide. Image from the National Cancer Institute in the public domain. Numerous research projects in the past and present are investigating cell cycle genes. Some of these research projects are focused on cancer treatments and cures and others are focused on understanding the biology of this process. Because much of this research is focused on cancer, the terminology used is generally focused on relationship to the disease. For example, genes that inhibit cell division are classified as tumor suppressor genes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not divide uncontrollably because these genes will stop the process. Genes that encourage cell division are called proto-oncogenes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not receive the message to divide unless it should be dividing. Mutation Mutations could cause proto-oncogenes to stop working properly. Mutations are errors in DNA that can result from genetic predisposition or environmental factors. Mutagens are chemicals in the environment that produce mutations. Carcinogens are specifically those mutagens that have shown that they can cause cancer. Cigarettes, for example, contain carcinogens that can alter the DNA and disrupt proper regulation of the cell cycle. Current efforts to decrease the use of cigarettes are correlated with a decrease in lung cancer. Image from the National Cancer Institute in the public domain. Chart illustrates a correlation between smoking and lung cancer in US males, showing a 20-year time lag between increased smoking rates and increased incidence of lung cancer. The development of cancer requires mutations in BOTH proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. A malfunctioning proto-oncogene is called an oncogene because it promotes the development of cancer. The root “proto-” refers to "before" and the root “onco-” refers to "cancer." A defective tumor suppressor gene can no longer suppress tumors. Cancer is the result of numerous mutations in multiple genes involved in regulating the cell cycle. The cell cycle is highly regulated. There are many checkpoints that are used to determine if the cell should or should not continue through the stages of the cell cycle. Many different environmental and internal signals are involved in determining whether or not a cell will complete division. Checkpoints occur throughout the cell cycle. These checkpoints control whether or not a cell will continue dividing. Image adapted from a diagram by LadyofHats: Mariana Ruiz Villarreal in the public domain. A healthy cell has many genes that produce proteins involved in the process of regulating cell division. Some of these genes produce proteins that encourage cell division. These proteins would be produced under circumstances where the cell should divide. For example, if you scrape your knee, the cells in that area need to be replaced. Other genes produce proteins that inhibit cell division. For example, healthy human cells grown on a petri dish would stop growing when they filled the dish. This is also an essential component of regulation. Cells that continue dividing when they should not can cause cancer. Cancer cells do not respond to proper regulatory signals and divide when they should not divide. Image from the National Cancer Institute in the public domain. Numerous research projects in the past and present are investigating cell cycle genes. Some of these research projects are focused on cancer treatments and cures and others are focused on understanding the biology of this process. Because much of this research is focused on cancer, the terminology used is generally focused on relationship to the disease. For example, genes that inhibit cell division are classified as tumor suppressor genes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not divide uncontrollably because these genes will stop the process. Genes that encourage cell division are called proto-oncogenes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not receive the message to divide unless it should be dividing. Mutations could cause proto-oncogenes to stop working properly. Mutations are errors in DNA that can result from genetic predisposition or environmental factors. Mutagens are chemicals in the environment that produce mutations. Carcinogens are specifically those mutagens that have shown that they can cause cancer. Cigarettes, for example, contain carcinogens that can alter the DNA and disrupt proper regulation of the cell cycle. Current efforts to decrease the use of cigarettes are correlated with a decrease in lung cancer. Image from the National Cancer Institute in the public domain. Chart illustrates a correlation between smoking and lung cancer in US males, showing a 20-year time lag between increased smoking rates and increased incidence of lung cancer. The development of cancer requires mutations in BOTH proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. A malfunctioning proto-oncogene is called an oncogene because it promotes the development of cancer. The root “proto-” refers to "before" and the root “onco-” refers to "cancer." A defective tumor suppressor gene can no longer suppress tumors. Cancer is the result of numerous mutations in multiple genes involved in regulating the cell cycle.   Application Spotlight: Cancer Cell Cycle Regulation The cell cycle is highly regulated. There are many checkpoints that are used to determine if the cell should or should not continue through the stages of the cell cycle. Many different environmental and internal signals are involved in determining whether or not a cell will complete division. Checkpoints occur throughout the cell cycle. These checkpoints control whether or not a cell will continue dividing. Image adapted from a diagram by LadyofHats: Mariana Ruiz Villarreal in the public domain. A healthy cell has many genes that produce proteins involved in the process of regulating cell division. Some of these genes produce proteins that encourage cell division. These proteins would be produced under circumstances where the cell should divide. For example, if you scrape your knee, the cells in that area need to be replaced. Other genes produce proteins that inhibit cell division. For example, healthy human cells grown on a petri dish would stop growing when they filled the dish. This is also an essential component of regulation. Cells that continue dividing when they should not can cause cancer. Cancer cells do not respond to proper regulatory signals and divide when they should not divide. Image from the National Cancer Institute in the public domain. Numerous research projects in the past and present are investigating cell cycle genes. Some of these research projects are focused on cancer treatments and cures and others are focused on understanding the biology of this process. Because much of this research is focused on cancer, the terminology used is generally focused on relationship to the disease. For example, genes that inhibit cell division are classified as tumor suppressor genes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not divide uncontrollably because these genes will stop the process. Genes that encourage cell division are called proto-oncogenes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not receive the message to divide unless it should be dividing. Mutation Mutations could cause proto-oncogenes to stop working properly. Mutations are errors in DNA that can result from genetic predisposition or environmental factors. Mutagens are chemicals in the environment that produce mutations. Carcinogens are specifically those mutagens that have shown that they can cause cancer. Cigarettes, for example, contain carcinogens that can alter the DNA and disrupt proper regulation of the cell cycle. Current efforts to decrease the use of cigarettes are correlated with a decrease in lung cancer. Image from the National Cancer Institute in the public domain. Chart illustrates a correlation between smoking and lung cancer in US males, showing a 20-year time lag between increased smoking rates and increased incidence of lung cancer. The development of cancer requires mutations in BOTH proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. A malfunctioning proto-oncogene is called an oncogene because it promotes the development of cancer. The root “proto-” refers to "before" and the root “onco-” refers to "cancer." A defective tumor suppressor gene can no longer suppress tumors. Cancer is the result of numerous mutations in multiple genes involved in regulating the cell cycle. Cell Cycle Checkpoints Regulatory Molecules Mutated Regulatory Molecules The cell cycle is highly regulated. There are many checkpoints that are used to determine if the cell should or should not continue through the stages of the cell cycle. Many different environmental and internal signals are involved in determining whether or not a cell will complete division. Checkpoints occur throughout the cell cycle. These checkpoints control whether or not a cell will continue dividing. Image adapted from a diagram by LadyofHats: Mariana Ruiz Villarreal in the public domain. A healthy cell has many genes that produce proteins involved in the process of regulating cell division. Some of these genes produce proteins that encourage cell division. These proteins would be produced under circumstances where the cell should divide. For example, if you scrape your knee, the cells in that area need to be replaced. Other genes produce proteins that inhibit cell division. For example, healthy human cells grown on a petri dish would stop growing when they filled the dish. This is also an essential component of regulation. Cells that continue dividing when they should not can cause cancer. Cancer cells do not respond to proper regulatory signals and divide when they should not divide. Image from the National Cancer Institute in the public domain. Numerous research projects in the past and present are investigating cell cycle genes. Some of these research projects are focused on cancer treatments and cures and others are focused on understanding the biology of this process. Because much of this research is focused on cancer, the terminology used is generally focused on relationship to the disease. For example, genes that inhibit cell division are classified as tumor suppressor genes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not divide uncontrollably because these genes will stop the process. Genes that encourage cell division are called proto-oncogenes. If these genes are working properly, a cell will not receive the message to divide unless it should be dividing. Mutations could cause proto-oncogenes to stop working properly. Mutations are errors in DNA that can result from genetic predisposition or environmental factors. Mutagens are chemicals in the environment that produce mutations. Carcinogens are specifically those mutagens that have shown that they can cause cancer. Cigarettes, for example, contain carcinogens that can alter the DNA and disrupt proper regulation of the cell cycle. Current efforts to decrease the use of cigarettes are correlated with a decrease in lung cancer. Image from the National Cancer Institute in the public domain. Chart illustrates a correlation between smoking and lung cancer in US males, showing a 20-year time lag between increased smoking rates and increased incidence of lung cancer. The development of cancer requires mutations in BOTH proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. A malfunctioning proto-oncogene is called an oncogene because it promotes the development of cancer. The root “proto-” refers to "before" and the root “onco-” refers to "cancer." A defective tumor suppressor gene can no longer suppress tumors. Cancer is the result of numerous mutations in multiple genes involved in regulating the cell cycle.   Metaphase Metaphase is so named because the chromosomes line up in the middle of the cell. The root “meta-” means “middle”. Metaphase Cell in Metaphase Notice the chromosomes in the center of the cell. The kinetochore microtubules are used to orient the chromosomes in the center of the cell. Each chromosome will be attached to two kinetochore microtubules. Each of these kinetochore microtubules will be attached to one of the two centrioles.   Anaphase During anaphase the kinetochore proteins break down the microbules attached to them and the connections between each copy of the chromosome will be broken down. This causes the individual chromosomes to move to opposite poles of the cell. The root “ana-” refers to “apart” because the chromosomes are moving apart from each other. Anaphase Cell in Anaphase Notice the chromosomes being pulled to the opposite poles of the cell. The non-kinetochore microtubules from one pole also push on the non-kinetochore microtubules from the other pole. This causes the cell to elongate. By the end of anaphase, each pole of the cell contains an identical set of chromosomes.   Telophase In telophase, the nuclei at each pole reform. The chromosomes are now separated into two identical nuclei; this is the end of mitosis. However, the two nuclei are still in a single cell. The next step will separate the cytoplasm into two cells. “Telo” comes from the Greek word for “end.” Telophase Cell in Telophase. Notice the chromosomes clustering at the opposite poles of the cell.   Cytokinesis Cytokinesis is the separation of the cytoplasm into two new daughter cells. Animal cells divide when proteins pinch in the center of the cell until it separates into two. This region is called the cleavage furrow. Plant cells divide when new cell wall components are laid down in the center of the cell. This is called the cell plate. Cytokinesis Cell in Cytokinesis Notice the cell dividing in half.   Cell Replication: Meiosis Asexual and Sexual Reproduction There are two ways for organisms to reproduce: asexual and sexual. Many organisms, such as bacteria, fungi, and even some plants and animals, reproduce asexually. During asexual reproduction, all of the genes in a cell are passed to its daughter cells. This means that the resulting cells are clones or identical copies of the parental cell. Asexual reproduction is efficient and fast. However, it only provides one set of genes to adapt to the environment. Think about it like a set of lottery numbers. Do you have more chances of winning if you play only one number or if you play ten numbers? Sexual reproduction, in which the genes of two parents are combined, results in more genetic variability. This enables offspring to deal more successfully with environmental change, although sexual reproduction is a more complex process and results in a smaller number of offspring. Interestingly, certain organisms that can reproduce both asexually and sexually will choose sexual reproduction only when environmental conditions are not optimal. That way, a smaller number of more variable, and thus more adaptable, offspring is produced. In optimal conditions, however, asexual reproduction is the favored mechanism. As you recall, genetic information is contained in DNA, which in eukaryotic cells are bound to special proteins called histones. The combination of DNA and histone proteins is called chromatin. During the S-phase of the cell cycle, the chromatin is loose, to facilitate DNA replication. Chromatin can condense to form chromosomes during nuclear division. Chromosomes have a typical appearance and can be organized in a karyotype. Human Karyotype of a Male Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes (2n = 46). Of those 23 pairs, 22 are autosomes, and the 23rd pair are sex chromosomes. Sex chromosomes can be of two types: X and Y. Males have one X and one Y chromosome (XY), while women have two copies of the X chromosome (XX). In sexual reproduction, two reproductive cells called gametes fuse in the process of fertilization. In order to avoid the duplication of the chromosome number, gametes are formed through a special form of cell division, meiosis, which halves the number of chromosomes. Cells with a single set of chromosomes are haploid (n), in contrast to the somatic (body) cells, which are diploid(2n) . The fusion of the gametes during fertilization restores the diploid chromosome number in the first cell of the new individual, the zygote. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC In the human lifecycle, haploid gametes produced during meiosis fuse to form a diploid zygote, which goes through the process of mitosis to grow into an adult human. When the adult human produces haploid gametes, the process can be repeated. Mitosis vs. Meiosis This shuffling of the genetic material is one of the sources of genetic variability that makes meiosis such an important process. What is Meiosis? Germ cells are diploid cells that go through the process of meiosis to form haploid gametes. This process can happen at different times, depending on the organism. For example, in humans, the male gametes (sperm cells) are formed continuously from germ cells in the testes, starting in puberty. Female gametes (eggs or oocytes), on the other hand, are formed in the ovaries during fetal life. They remain in the ovaries, “stuck” in the final stages of meiosis, which is not completed unless fertilization occurs. Meiosis achieves more than just halving the chromosome number. It also introduces variability in the way the genes are distributed in the gametes. In diploid cells, there are 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. Each pair of homologues has the same set of genes, though they can have different alleles (or forms) of each gene. One homologue comes from your mother and the other comes from your father. You may have inherited an allele for straight hair from your mother and an allele for wavy hair from your father. When meiosis takes place, the homologous chromosomes will separate, so one gamete will carry the allele for wavy hair and the other for straight hair. Each trait on each chromosome will segregate its two alleles in a completely random way. There are also other additional ways of “shuffling the cards” of genes, which explains why siblings from the same parents can be so different. The process of Meiosis Let’s learn more about meiosis. Meiosis consists of two consecutive cell divisions, called Meiosis I and Meiosis II. Both stages of meiosis consist of prophase, metaphase, anaphase and telophase, just like mitosis. The phases are labeled I in Meiosis I, and II in Meiosis II. Meiosis I is often referred to as the reduction division, because it is during this stage that the number of chromosomes in the parent cell are divided in half. Meiosis II is extremely similar to Mitosis, except that there are half as many chromosomes. Meiosis I: Crossing over An important feature of meiosis is the process called crossing over. Crossing over is responsible for generating much of the diversity that exists within a species. Remember that diversity in a species is one of the hallmark characteristics of living organisms. In future modules we will see that this diversity allows species to survive in changing environmental conditions. So, crossing over is another process that brings variability in the offspring. Crossing over is a process in which genes swap positions on matching chromosomes. The result is a new combination of genes on each chromosome. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC During Metaphase I, homologous pairs of chromosomes line up on the metaphase plate. This is very different from mitosis, when sister chromatids line up, completely independent of their homologues. During Anaphase I, homologous pairs are pulled apart, and they move toward the poles of the cell. In Telophase I, cytokinesis occurs and two new daughter cells are formed. There are two ways for organisms to reproduce: asexual and sexual. Many organisms, such as bacteria, fungi, and even some plants and animals, reproduce asexually. During asexual reproduction, all of the genes in a cell are passed to its daughter cells. This means that the resulting cells are clones or identical copies of the parental cell. Asexual reproduction is efficient and fast. However, it only provides one set of genes to adapt to the environment. Think about it like a set of lottery numbers. Do you have more chances of winning if you play only one number or if you play ten numbers? Sexual reproduction, in which the genes of two parents are combined, results in more genetic variability. This enables offspring to deal more successfully with environmental change, although sexual reproduction is a more complex process and results in a smaller number of offspring. Interestingly, certain organisms that can reproduce both asexually and sexually will choose sexual reproduction only when environmental conditions are not optimal. That way, a smaller number of more variable, and thus more adaptable, offspring is produced. In optimal conditions, however, asexual reproduction is the favored mechanism. As you recall, genetic information is contained in DNA, which in eukaryotic cells are bound to special proteins called histones. The combination of DNA and histone proteins is called chromatin. During the S-phase of the cell cycle, the chromatin is loose, to facilitate DNA replication. Chromatin can condense to form chromosomes during nuclear division. Chromosomes have a typical appearance and can be organized in a karyotype. Human Karyotype of a Male Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes (2n = 46). Of those 23 pairs, 22 are autosomes, and the 23rd pair are sex chromosomes. Sex chromosomes can be of two types: X and Y. Males have one X and one Y chromosome (XY), while women have two copies of the X chromosome (XX). In sexual reproduction, two reproductive cells called gametes fuse in the process of fertilization. In order to avoid the duplication of the chromosome number, gametes are formed through a special form of cell division, meiosis, which halves the number of chromosomes. Cells with a single set of chromosomes are haploid (n), in contrast to the somatic (body) cells, which are diploid(2n) . The fusion of the gametes during fertilization restores the diploid chromosome number in the first cell of the new individual, the zygote. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC In the human lifecycle, haploid gametes produced during meiosis fuse to form a diploid zygote, which goes through the process of mitosis to grow into an adult human. When the adult human produces haploid gametes, the process can be repeated. Mitosis vs. Meiosis This shuffling of the genetic material is one of the sources of genetic variability that makes meiosis such an important process. Germ cells are diploid cells that go through the process of meiosis to form haploid gametes. This process can happen at different times, depending on the organism. For example, in humans, the male gametes (sperm cells) are formed continuously from germ cells in the testes, starting in puberty. Female gametes (eggs or oocytes), on the other hand, are formed in the ovaries during fetal life. They remain in the ovaries, “stuck” in the final stages of meiosis, which is not completed unless fertilization occurs. Meiosis achieves more than just halving the chromosome number. It also introduces variability in the way the genes are distributed in the gametes. In diploid cells, there are 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. Each pair of homologues has the same set of genes, though they can have different alleles (or forms) of each gene. One homologue comes from your mother and the other comes from your father. You may have inherited an allele for straight hair from your mother and an allele for wavy hair from your father. When meiosis takes place, the homologous chromosomes will separate, so one gamete will carry the allele for wavy hair and the other for straight hair. Each trait on each chromosome will segregate its two alleles in a completely random way. There are also other additional ways of “shuffling the cards” of genes, which explains why siblings from the same parents can be so different. Let’s learn more about meiosis. Meiosis consists of two consecutive cell divisions, called Meiosis I and Meiosis II. Both stages of meiosis consist of prophase, metaphase, anaphase and telophase, just like mitosis. The phases are labeled I in Meiosis I, and II in Meiosis II. Meiosis I is often referred to as the reduction division, because it is during this stage that the number of chromosomes in the parent cell are divided in half. Meiosis II is extremely similar to Mitosis, except that there are half as many chromosomes. An important feature of meiosis is the process called crossing over. Crossing over is responsible for generating much of the diversity that exists within a species. Remember that diversity in a species is one of the hallmark characteristics of living organisms. In future modules we will see that this diversity allows species to survive in changing environmental conditions. So, crossing over is another process that brings variability in the offspring. Crossing over is a process in which genes swap positions on matching chromosomes. The result is a new combination of genes on each chromosome. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC During Metaphase I, homologous pairs of chromosomes line up on the metaphase plate. This is very different from mitosis, when sister chromatids line up, completely independent of their homologues. During Anaphase I, homologous pairs are pulled apart, and they move toward the poles of the cell. In Telophase I, cytokinesis occurs and two new daughter cells are formed.   Asexual and Sexual Reproduction There are two ways for organisms to reproduce: asexual and sexual. Many organisms, such as bacteria, fungi, and even some plants and animals reproduce asexually. During asexual reproduction, all of the genes in a cell are passed to its daughter cells. This means that the resulting cells are clones, or identical copies of the parental cell. Asexual reproduction is efficient and fast. However, it only provides one set of genes to adapt to the environment. Think about trying to guess a number. Do you have a better chance of guessing the number if you get one guess or if you get two guesses? Sexual reproduction, in which the genes of two parents are combined, results in more genetic variability. This enables offspring to deal more successfully with environmental change. However, sexual reproduction is a more complex process and results in a smaller number of offspring. Interestingly, certain organisms that can reproduce both asexually and sexually will choose sexual reproduction only when environmental conditions are not optimal. That way, a smaller number of more variable, and thus more adaptable, offspring is produced. In optimal conditions, however, asexual reproduction is the favored mechanism. As you learned, genetic information is contained in DNA, which in eukaryotic cells is bound to special proteins called histones. The combination of DNA and histone proteins is called chromatin. During the S phase of the cell cycle, the chromatin is loose, to facilitate DNA replication. Chromatin can condense to form chromosomes during nuclear division. Chromosomes have a typical appearance and can be organized in a karyotype. Human Karyotype of a Male Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes (2n = 46). Of those 23 pairs, 22 are autosomes, and the 23rd pair are sex chromosomes. Sex chromosomes can be of two types: X and Y. Males have one X and one Y chromosome (XY), while women have two copies of the X chromosome (XX). In sexual reproduction, two reproductive cells called gametes fuse in the process of fertilization. In order to avoid the duplication of the chromosome number, gametes are formed through a special form of cell division, meiosis, which halves the number of chromosomes. Cells with a single set of chromosomes are haploid (n), in contrast to the somatic (body) cells, which are diploid (2n). The fusion of the gametes during fertilization restores the diploid chromosome number in the first cell of the new individual, the zygote. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC In the human life cycle, haploid gametes produced during meiosis fuse to form a diploid zygote, which goes through the process of mitosis to grow into an adult human. When the adult human produces haploid gametes, the process can be repeated. Mitosis vs. Meiosis This shuffling of the genetic material is one of the sources of genetic variability that makes meiosis such an important process.   Meiosis I What Is Meiosis? Germ cells are diploid cells that go through the process of meiosis to form haploid gametes. This process can happen at different times, depending on the organism. For example, in humans, the male gametes (sperm cells) are formed continuously from germ cells in the testes, starting in puberty. Female gametes (eggs or oocytes), on the other hand, are formed in the ovaries during fetal life. They remain in the ovaries, “stuck” in the final stages of meiosis, which is not completed unless fertilization occurs. Meiosis achieves more than just halving the chromosome number. It also introduces variability in the way the genes are distributed in the gametes. In diploid cells, there are 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. Each pair of homologues has the same set of genes, though they can have different alleles (or forms) of each gene. One homologue comes from your mother and the other comes from your father. You may have inherited an allele for straight hair from your mother and an allele for wavy hair from your father. When meiosis takes place, the homologous chromosomes will separate, so one gamete will carry the allele for wavy hair and the other for straight hair. Each trait on each chromosome will segregate its two alleles in a completely random way. There are also other additional ways of “shuffling the cards” of genes, which explains why siblings from the same parents can be so different. The Process of Meiosis Let’s learn more about meiosis. Meiosis consists of two consecutive cell divisions, called meiosis I and meiosis II. Both stages of meiosis consist of prophase, metaphase, anaphase and telophase, just like mitosis. The phases are labeled I in meiosis I, and II in meiosis II. Meiosis I is often referred to as the reduction division. It is during this stage that the number of chromosomes in the parent cell are divided in half because homologous chromosomes are separated. One homologue with its sister chromatid go to one daughter cell while the other homologue with its sister chromatid go to the other daughter cell. Meiosis II is extremely similar to mitosis, except that there are half as many chromosomes. In Meiosis II, sister chromatids are separated from each other. Meiosis I: Crossing Over An important feature of meiosis is the process called crossing over. Crossing over is responsible for generating much of the diversity that exists within a species. Remember that diversity in a species is one of the hallmark characteristics of living organisms. In future modules, you will see that this diversity allows species to survive in changing environmental conditions. So, crossing over is another process that brings variability in the offspring. Crossing over is a process in which genes swap positions on matching chromosomes. The result is a new combination of genes on each chromosome. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC During metaphase I, homologous pairs of chromosomes line up on the metaphase plate. This is very different from mitosis, when sister chromatids line up, completely independent of their homologues. During anaphase I, homologous pairs are pulled apart, and they move toward the poles of the cell. In telophase I, cytokinesis occurs and two new daughter cells are formed. Meiosis I ends with the production of two haploid daughter cells because the homologous pairs of chromosomes have been separated. Germ cells are diploid cells that go through the process of meiosis to form haploid gametes. This process can happen at different times, depending on the organism. For example, in humans, the male gametes (sperm cells) are formed continuously from germ cells in the testes, starting in puberty. Female gametes (eggs or oocytes), on the other hand, are formed in the ovaries during fetal life. They remain in the ovaries, “stuck” in the final stages of meiosis, which is not completed unless fertilization occurs. Meiosis achieves more than just halving the chromosome number. It also introduces variability in the way the genes are distributed in the gametes. In diploid cells, there are 23 pairs of homologous chromosomes. Each pair of homologues has the same set of genes, though they can have different alleles (or forms) of each gene. One homologue comes from your mother and the other comes from your father. You may have inherited an allele for straight hair from your mother and an allele for wavy hair from your father. When meiosis takes place, the homologous chromosomes will separate, so one gamete will carry the allele for wavy hair and the other for straight hair. Each trait on each chromosome will segregate its two alleles in a completely random way. There are also other additional ways of “shuffling the cards” of genes, which explains why siblings from the same parents can be so different. Let’s learn more about meiosis. Meiosis consists of two consecutive cell divisions, called meiosis I and meiosis II. Both stages of meiosis consist of prophase, metaphase, anaphase and telophase, just like mitosis. The phases are labeled I in meiosis I, and II in meiosis II. Meiosis I is often referred to as the reduction division. It is during this stage that the number of chromosomes in the parent cell are divided in half because homologous chromosomes are separated. One homologue with its sister chromatid go to one daughter cell while the other homologue with its sister chromatid go to the other daughter cell. Meiosis II is extremely similar to mitosis, except that there are half as many chromosomes. In Meiosis II, sister chromatids are separated from each other. An important feature of meiosis is the process called crossing over. Crossing over is responsible for generating much of the diversity that exists within a species. Remember that diversity in a species is one of the hallmark characteristics of living organisms. In future modules, you will see that this diversity allows species to survive in changing environmental conditions. So, crossing over is another process that brings variability in the offspring. Crossing over is a process in which genes swap positions on matching chromosomes. The result is a new combination of genes on each chromosome. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC During metaphase I, homologous pairs of chromosomes line up on the metaphase plate. This is very different from mitosis, when sister chromatids line up, completely independent of their homologues. During anaphase I, homologous pairs are pulled apart, and they move toward the poles of the cell. In telophase I, cytokinesis occurs and two new daughter cells are formed. Meiosis I ends with the production of two haploid daughter cells because the homologous pairs of chromosomes have been separated.   Meiosis II Meiosis II begins with two haploid cells, each containing too much DNA. Remember that while homologous pairs of chromosomes were separated in Meiosis I, each homologous chromosome is still connected to its sister chromatid. The presence of a sister chromatid for each chromosome at the start of Meiosis II means that each cell contains too much DNA. The events in meiosis II are almost identical to the events of mitosis. In Meiosis II (which is essentially like mitosis), the sister chromatids separate from each other. Thus, as the result of meiosis, four haploid cells are produced. Note that those four cells are not always viable. In humans, male germ cells will produce four viable sperm cells. However, in the case of females, only one of the four will survive as an egg. The end result of meiosis is four unique haploid daughter cells. Genetic variability is introduced in various ways during meiosis: Crossing over during prophase 1: crossing over introduces novel combinations of traits among offspring. Segregation of chromosomes into gametes: the maternal and the paternal copy of each chromosome pair will segregate to different gametes. However, which goes to which cell is a random process. Thus, the possible number of combinations is astounding: in the case of humans, with 23 chromosomes, it is 223 (8,388,608). When you add that fertilization is also a random process, you can get an idea of the incredible number of combinations of possible offspring showing up even in one family.   Mitosis and Meiosis Compared Comparing Mitosis and Meiosis Mitosis Meiosis Overall purpose The purpose of mitosis is to produce new somatic cells and germ cells. These new cells are needed to: (1) increase the number of cells in an organism during growth and development; (2) replace damaged cells during wound healing; and (3) produce replacement cells as other cells undergo naturally preprogrammed death. Mitosis must preserve the same chromosome number in the parent and daughter cells. This is necessary for the parent and daughter cells to be identical to one another. The purpose of meiosis is to produce new gametes (eggs and sperm). These cells are needed for reproduction. Meiosis must reduce the chromosome number in the daughter cells to half that in the parent cell. This is necessary for reproduction. when an egg and sperm (each with half the full chromosome set) fuse during fertilization, they create a single new cell with the full chromosome set. Starting cells (parental cells) Somatic cells Germ Cells New cells made (daughter cells) Somatic cells Gametes (eggs in female; sperm in male) Chromosome content of the parent cells Diploid (2n) Diploid (2n) Chromosome content of the daughter cells Diploid (2n) Haploid (1n) Effect on the chromosome number of the daughter cells Preserves the chromosome number from parent to daughter cells Cuts the chromosome number in half from parent to daughter cell Number of cell divisions that occur 1 2 Number of daughter cells made 2 4 University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Mitosis Meiosis Overall purpose The purpose of mitosis is to produce new somatic cells and germ cells. These new cells are needed to: (1) increase the number of cells in an organism during growth and development; (2) replace damaged cells during wound healing; and (3) produce replacement cells as other cells undergo naturally preprogrammed death. Mitosis must preserve the same chromosome number in the parent and daughter cells. This is necessary for the parent and daughter cells to be identical to one another. The purpose of meiosis is to produce new gametes (eggs and sperm). These cells are needed for reproduction. Meiosis must reduce the chromosome number in the daughter cells to half that in the parent cell. This is necessary for reproduction. when an egg and sperm (each with half the full chromosome set) fuse during fertilization, they create a single new cell with the full chromosome set. Starting cells (parental cells) Somatic cells Germ Cells New cells made (daughter cells) Somatic cells Gametes (eggs in female; sperm in male) Chromosome content of the parent cells Diploid (2n) Diploid (2n) Chromosome content of the daughter cells Diploid (2n) Haploid (1n) Effect on the chromosome number of the daughter cells Preserves the chromosome number from parent to daughter cells Cuts the chromosome number in half from parent to daughter cell Number of cell divisions that occur 1 2 Number of daughter cells made 2 4 University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC   Preparing for Cell Replication In cell replication, chromosomes are moved to new locations. Like packing household materials into a box before moving, condensing the chromosomes helps with this process. Chromosomes are condensed by wrapping them more tightly around histones (proteins found in the nucleus). If a cell is going to reproduce, more DNA is needed. During mitosis, one cell divides into two cells containing identical genetic material. This requires twice as much DNA, because there must be one complete set for each daughter cell. Meiosis also requires the DNA to be replicated. DNA replication (or DNA synthesis) occurs in the synthesis (S) stage of the cell cycle. After a chromosome has replicated, the two copies remain attached at a point called the centromere. Each copy of the chromosome is called a chromatid. Before cell division, DNA is copied and condensed. During cell division, each chromatid moves to one of the two daughter cells. Keeping the two copies of a single chromosome attached helps the sorting process. In human cells, there are a total of 46 chromosomes. After the S stage of the cell cycle, these chromosomes have replicated. The process of mitosis must sort these into 2 identical piles of 46 chromosomes. The cell keeps the matching pairs attached to keep track of which chromosomes need to be sent to opposite poles. This is rather like sorting a sock drawer. If all the socks are loose in the drawer, it can be challenging to find the identical mate to a sock. But if the sock mates are folded together, each bundle contains both mates in the set. Overview of Cell Reproduction By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Both mitosis and meiosis must keep track of the chromatids on a chromosome. In the Meiosis module, you will learn that meiosis must also keep track of homologous chromosomes. A diploid cell has two copies of each chromosome — one copy from each parent. These chromosome pairs are called homologous because they have the same genes, but may have different versions of that gene. For example, a homologous pair of chromosomes may have a gene for hair color. One chromosome in this homologue may contain a “blond” version of that gene and the other homologue may contain the “brown” version. Each gamete that is produced will get either the homologue with the brown version or the homologue with the blond version.   Cell Division Somatic Cells, Germ Cells, and Gametes Why do cells divide? In the discussion about the cell cycle, you learned that cells undergo different phases, during which they grow, duplicate their genetic material, and then divide. In single celled organisms, cell division results in two new individuals. Cell division in multicellular organisms is more complex. Most cells in multicellular organisms are somatic cells. Somatic cells consist of all the non-reproductive cells in an organism; for example, tissue cells, nerve cells, and blood cells. When somatic cells divide, they go through the process of mitosis, which is a type of cell division that results in two identical daughter cells. Meiosis, on the other hand, is a type of cell division that prepares an organism for sexual reproduction. Meiosis begins with germ cells. Be careful not to confuse “germ cells” with the common use of the word “germ”, which refers to any infectious microorganism. In humans, germ cells are found in the ovaries and testes. These germ cells go through the process of meiosis to produce gametes, which in animals, are sperm and egg cells. When two gametes from different individuals combine, a unique new cell is produced, called a zygote. This single cell then goes through the process of mitosis to grow into a new individual. You might be wondering how a single cell can grow into a complex adult organism containing many different cell types simply by mitosis. This happens through a process known as differentiation, in which certain genes found in a cell’s nucleus are turned on or off. Even though every single somatic cell in your body contains identical DNA, these cells were able to differentiate into specific cell types (such as blood cell, liver cells, etc.) simply by turning certain genes on or off. Throughout our lives we continue to produce more genetically identical cells through the process of mitosis. These somatic cells are essential for growth and replacement of worn-out cells and tissues. Mitosis and Meiosis: Role in Human Growth By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NCe. Mitosis and meiosis are the processes by which cells divide and grow; their role in human growth is summarized in the diagram above. Counting Chromosomes Somatic cells produced through mitosis are diploid. “Di-” means “two”, and diploid cells contain two copies of every chromosome. As you remember from the cell structure module, chromosomes are the condensed form of chromatin, the combination of DNA and proteins that fill the eukaryotic nucleus. Humans have a total of 46 chromosomes in their diploid cells. One way to write this is "2n=46." Humans who have more or less than 46 chromosomes sometimes survive, but usually have life-altering conditions, such as Down Syndrome. (Down Syndrome is caused by having three copies of chromosome 21, instead of the usual two copies). Chromsomes that Count Examine the following image of the 23 pairs of chromosomes found in a single somatic cell of a normal human. Notice that there are 22 pairs of chromosomes called autosomes and there is one pair of chromosomes called sex chromosomes. Males and females have different sex chromosomes. An image like this is called a karyotype and can be used to diagnose genetic disorders in humans. Gametes are haploid cells. They contain only one copy of each chromosome. In human haploid gametes, there are 23 chromosomes. One way to write this is "1n=23." As you learned in the previous activity, two haploid cells can combine, through the process of fertilization, to form a diploid zygote. The diploid zygote then goes through mitosis to form the diploid somatic cells of the organism. Remember that germ cells, found in the ovaries and testes, give rise to gametes. In other words, germ cells go through meiosis to produce gametes. Germ cells are diploid cells. When they go through meiosis, the end result is four unique haploid daughter cells! These haploid cells can be fertilized by other haploid cells to produce diploid cells again. Number of Chromosomes in Diploid and Haploid Cells By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. The table below summarizes the characteristics of somatic cells, germ cells and gametes. Why do cells divide? In the discussion about the cell cycle, you learned that cells undergo different phases, during which they grow, duplicate their genetic material, and then divide. In single celled organisms, cell division results in two new individuals. Cell division in multicellular organisms is more complex. Most cells in multicellular organisms are somatic cells. Somatic cells consist of all the non-reproductive cells in an organism; for example, tissue cells, nerve cells, and blood cells. When somatic cells divide, they go through the process of mitosis, which is a type of cell division that results in two identical daughter cells. Meiosis, on the other hand, is a type of cell division that prepares an organism for sexual reproduction. Meiosis begins with germ cells. Be careful not to confuse “germ cells” with the common use of the word “germ”, which refers to any infectious microorganism. In humans, germ cells are found in the ovaries and testes. These germ cells go through the process of meiosis to produce gametes, which in animals, are sperm and egg cells. When two gametes from different individuals combine, a unique new cell is produced, called a zygote. This single cell then goes through the process of mitosis to grow into a new individual. You might be wondering how a single cell can grow into a complex adult organism containing many different cell types simply by mitosis. This happens through a process known as differentiation, in which certain genes found in a cell’s nucleus are turned on or off. Even though every single somatic cell in your body contains identical DNA, these cells were able to differentiate into specific cell types (such as blood cell, liver cells, etc.) simply by turning certain genes on or off. Throughout our lives we continue to produce more genetically identical cells through the process of mitosis. These somatic cells are essential for growth and replacement of worn-out cells and tissues. Mitosis and Meiosis: Role in Human Growth By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NCe. Mitosis and meiosis are the processes by which cells divide and grow; their role in human growth is summarized in the diagram above. Somatic cells produced through mitosis are diploid. “Di-” means “two”, and diploid cells contain two copies of every chromosome. As you remember from the cell structure module, chromosomes are the condensed form of chromatin, the combination of DNA and proteins that fill the eukaryotic nucleus. Humans have a total of 46 chromosomes in their diploid cells. One way to write this is "2n=46." Humans who have more or less than 46 chromosomes sometimes survive, but usually have life-altering conditions, such as Down Syndrome. (Down Syndrome is caused by having three copies of chromosome 21, instead of the usual two copies). Chromsomes that Count Examine the following image of the 23 pairs of chromosomes found in a single somatic cell of a normal human. Notice that there are 22 pairs of chromosomes called autosomes and there is one pair of chromosomes called sex chromosomes. Males and females have different sex chromosomes. An image like this is called a karyotype and can be used to diagnose genetic disorders in humans. Gametes are haploid cells. They contain only one copy of each chromosome. In human haploid gametes, there are 23 chromosomes. One way to write this is "1n=23." As you learned in the previous activity, two haploid cells can combine, through the process of fertilization, to form a diploid zygote. The diploid zygote then goes through mitosis to form the diploid somatic cells of the organism. Remember that germ cells, found in the ovaries and testes, give rise to gametes. In other words, germ cells go through meiosis to produce gametes. Germ cells are diploid cells. When they go through meiosis, the end result is four unique haploid daughter cells! These haploid cells can be fertilized by other haploid cells to produce diploid cells again. Number of Chromosomes in Diploid and Haploid Cells By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. The table below summarizes the characteristics of somatic cells, germ cells and gametes.   Introduction to Cell Replication Somatic Cells, Germ Cells, and Gametes Why do cells divide? In the discussion about the cell cycle, you learned that cells undergo different phases, during which they grow, duplicate their genetic material, and then divide. In unicellular species, cell division results in the reproduction of the entire organism. However, cell division in multicellular species can serve two main purposes. Cells can divide into identical daughter cells, enabling growth and repair, or gametes can be formed for use in sexual reproduction. Each of us began life as a single cell called a zygote. This cell divided rapidly to produce a mass of genetically identical cells. These identical cells then differentiated into specific cell types (such as blood cell, liver cells, etc.) by turning certain genes on or off. Throughout our lives we continue to produce more genetically identical cells. These somatic cells are essential for growth and replacement of worn-out cells and tissues. Multicellular organisms continue to produce somatic cells throughout their lives using the process of mitosis, which will be discussed in the next module. Humans and other organisms that undergo sexual reproduction produce specialized reproductive cells called germ cells which are the precursors of gametes (called sperm and egg in many organisms including humans). [The term "germ cell" used here should not to be confused with the common term “germ” meaning infectuous microorganisms.] When the gamete from one individual fuses with the gamete from another individual, a zygote is formed. In sexually reproducing organisms, gametes are produced through a process called meiosis which will also be discussed in a later module. In organisms that are diploid, gametes are produced using a different process than somatic cells. Mitosis and meiosis are the agents of cell division and growth; their role in human growth is summarized in the diagram below. Mitosis and Meiosis: Role in Human Growth By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. The word diploid describes the number of complete chromosome sets contained within a cell. Diploid begins with the prefix di, which means two. So diploid means two sets of chromosomes. Each cell in a diploid organism has two sets of chromosomes, one set from each parent. In somatic cells, each newly formed daughter cell needs to have both copies of these chromosomes. Mitosis produces identical diploid cells. If gametes were diploid, the zygote that results from the fusion of the two gametes would have 4 copies of each chromosome. That’s too many. Therefore, gametes must have only 1 copy of each chromosome: they are haploid. The word haploid begins with the letters ha, similar to the word half. This may help you remember that haploid cells have half the number of chromosomes of diploid cells, or one set of chromosomes. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. The table below summarizes the characteristics of somatic cells, germ cells and gametes. Chromosome Numbers and Structure A cell that is 2N = 6 has 6 total chromosomes. This cell is diploid (2N) because it has 2 sets of chromosomes. Each parent would have given this cell 3 chromosomes; one parent donating the chromosomes seen in the top row, the other donating the chromosomes seen in the bottom row. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Counting Chromosomes Why do cells divide? In the discussion about the cell cycle, you learned that cells undergo different phases, during which they grow, duplicate their genetic material, and then divide. In unicellular species, cell division results in the reproduction of the entire organism. However, cell division in multicellular species can serve two main purposes. Cells can divide into identical daughter cells, enabling growth and repair, or gametes can be formed for use in sexual reproduction. Each of us began life as a single cell called a zygote. This cell divided rapidly to produce a mass of genetically identical cells. These identical cells then differentiated into specific cell types (such as blood cell, liver cells, etc.) by turning certain genes on or off. Throughout our lives we continue to produce more genetically identical cells. These somatic cells are essential for growth and replacement of worn-out cells and tissues. Multicellular organisms continue to produce somatic cells throughout their lives using the process of mitosis, which will be discussed in the next module. Humans and other organisms that undergo sexual reproduction produce specialized reproductive cells called germ cells which are the precursors of gametes (called sperm and egg in many organisms including humans). [The term "germ cell" used here should not to be confused with the common term “germ” meaning infectuous microorganisms.] When the gamete from one individual fuses with the gamete from another individual, a zygote is formed. In sexually reproducing organisms, gametes are produced through a process called meiosis which will also be discussed in a later module. In organisms that are diploid, gametes are produced using a different process than somatic cells. Mitosis and meiosis are the agents of cell division and growth; their role in human growth is summarized in the diagram below. Mitosis and Meiosis: Role in Human Growth By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. The word diploid describes the number of complete chromosome sets contained within a cell. Diploid begins with the prefix di, which means two. So diploid means two sets of chromosomes. Each cell in a diploid organism has two sets of chromosomes, one set from each parent. In somatic cells, each newly formed daughter cell needs to have both copies of these chromosomes. Mitosis produces identical diploid cells. If gametes were diploid, the zygote that results from the fusion of the two gametes would have 4 copies of each chromosome. That’s too many. Therefore, gametes must have only 1 copy of each chromosome: they are haploid. The word haploid begins with the letters ha, similar to the word half. This may help you remember that haploid cells have half the number of chromosomes of diploid cells, or one set of chromosomes. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. The table below summarizes the characteristics of somatic cells, germ cells and gametes. Chromosome Numbers and Structure A cell that is 2N = 6 has 6 total chromosomes. This cell is diploid (2N) because it has 2 sets of chromosomes. Each parent would have given this cell 3 chromosomes; one parent donating the chromosomes seen in the top row, the other donating the chromosomes seen in the bottom row. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Counting Chromosomes   Types of Cells Somatic Cells, Germ Cells, and Gametes Why do cells divide? Cells undergo different phases, during which they grow, duplicate their genetic material, and then divide. In single-celled organisms, cell division results in two new individuals. Cell division in multicellular organisms is more complex. Most cells in multicellular organisms are somatic cells. Somatic cells consist of all the nonreproductive cells in an organism; for example, tissue cells, nerve cells, and blood cells. When somatic cells divide, they go through the process of mitosis, which is a type of cell division that results in two identical daughter cells. Meiosis, on the other hand, is a type of cell division that prepares an organism for sexual reproduction. Meiosis begins with germ cells. Be careful not to confuse “germ cells” with the common use of the word “germ,” which refers to any infectious microorganism. In humans, germ cells are found in the ovaries and testes. These germ cells go through the process of meiosis to produce gametes, which in animals are sperm and egg cells. When two gametes from different individuals combine, a unique new cell is produced, called a zygote. This single cell then goes through the process of mitosis to grow into a new individual. You might be wondering how a single cell can grow into a complex adult organism containing many different cell types simply by mitosis. This happens through a process known as differentiation, in which certain genes found in a cell’s nucleus are turned on or off. Even though every single somatic cell in your body contains identical DNA, these cells were able to differentiate into specific cell types (such as blood cell, liver cells, etc.) simply by turning certain genes on or off. Throughout our lives, we continue to produce more genetically identical cells through the process of mitosis. These somatic cells are essential for growth and replacement of worn-out cells and tissues. Mitosis and Meiosis: Role in Human Growth By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Mitosis and meiosis are the processes by which cells divide and grow; their role in human growth is summarized in the diagram above. Why do cells divide? Cells undergo different phases, during which they grow, duplicate their genetic material, and then divide. In single-celled organisms, cell division results in two new individuals. Cell division in multicellular organisms is more complex. Most cells in multicellular organisms are somatic cells. Somatic cells consist of all the nonreproductive cells in an organism; for example, tissue cells, nerve cells, and blood cells. When somatic cells divide, they go through the process of mitosis, which is a type of cell division that results in two identical daughter cells. Meiosis, on the other hand, is a type of cell division that prepares an organism for sexual reproduction. Meiosis begins with germ cells. Be careful not to confuse “germ cells” with the common use of the word “germ,” which refers to any infectious microorganism. In humans, germ cells are found in the ovaries and testes. These germ cells go through the process of meiosis to produce gametes, which in animals are sperm and egg cells. When two gametes from different individuals combine, a unique new cell is produced, called a zygote. This single cell then goes through the process of mitosis to grow into a new individual. You might be wondering how a single cell can grow into a complex adult organism containing many different cell types simply by mitosis. This happens through a process known as differentiation, in which certain genes found in a cell’s nucleus are turned on or off. Even though every single somatic cell in your body contains identical DNA, these cells were able to differentiate into specific cell types (such as blood cell, liver cells, etc.) simply by turning certain genes on or off. Throughout our lives, we continue to produce more genetically identical cells through the process of mitosis. These somatic cells are essential for growth and replacement of worn-out cells and tissues. Mitosis and Meiosis: Role in Human Growth By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Mitosis and meiosis are the processes by which cells divide and grow; their role in human growth is summarized in the diagram above.   Counting Chromosomes The chromosomes in somatic cells and germ cells are present in pairs. One chromosome in each pair is descended from the organism's father. The other chromosome in the pair is descended from the organism's mother. Each member of a chromosome pair is called a homologue. Together, these two chromosomes make up a pair of homologous chromosomes. The words homologue and homologous both begin with the prefix "homo-," which means "the same or similar." So the two chromosomes in each pair contain the same set of instructions. The following diagram shows the relationship between homologues and homologous chromosomes. Somatic cells produced through mitosis are diploid. “Di-” means “two,” and diploid cells contain two copies of every chromosome. Chromosomes are the condensed form of chromatin, the combination of DNA and proteins that fill the eukaryotic nucleus. Humans have a total of 46 chromosomes in their diploid cells. One way to write this is "2n = 46." Humans who have more or less than 46 chromosomes sometimes survive, but usually have life-altering conditions, such as Down syndrome. Down syndrome is caused by having three copies of chromosome 21, instead of the usual two copies. Chromosomes that Count Examine the following image of the 23 pairs of chromosomes found in a single somatic cell of a normal human. Notice that there are 22 pairs of chromosomes called autosomes and there is one pair of chromosomes called sex chromosomes. Males and females have different sex chromosomes. An image like this is called a karyotype and can be used to diagnose genetic disorders in humans. Gametes are haploid cells. They contain only one copy of each chromosome. In human haploid gametes, there are 23 chromosomes. One way to write this is "1n = 23." As you learned in the previous activity, two haploid cells can combine, through the process of fertilization, to form a diploid zygote. The diploid zygote then goes through mitosis to form the diploid somatic cells of the organism. Remember that germ cells, found in the ovaries and testes, give rise to gametes. In other words, germ cells go through meiosis to produce gametes. Germ cells are diploid cells. When they go through meiosis, the end result is four unique haploid daughter cells. These haploid cells can be fertilized by other haploid cells to produce diploid cells again. Number of Chromosomes in Diploid and Haploid Cells By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Chromosome Numbers and Structure A cell that is 2N = 6 has 6 total chromosomes. This cell is diploid (2N) because it has two sets of chromosomes. Each parent would have given this cell three chromosomes — one parent donating the chromosomes seen in the top row, the other donating the chromosomes seen in the bottom row. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Counting Chromosomes The table below summarizes the characteristics of somatic cells, germ cells, and gametes.   Cells and Chromosomes: Summary Summary Multicelled organisms are made of two main types of cells. Somatic cells are all the nonreproductive cells. Somatic cells are diploid and reproduce using mitosis. Diploid cells (2N) have two copies of each chromosome. Germ cells are immature reproductive cells. Germ cells are diploid and divide using meiosis to produce gametes. Gametes are haploid reproductive cells (sperm and eggs). Haploid cells (1N) have one copy of each chromosome. Cell division (mitosis and meiosis) sorts the genetic material (DNA) of a cell. This sorting of genetic material is essential, because most of the essential information for life is stored in the DNA. Each newly formed daughter cell must receive identical information; therefore the DNA in a cell must be copied before cell division begins. The copied DNA strands remain attached near their centers in a region called the centromere. Each copy of the DNA is called a chromatid, and both copies are called a chromosome. The cell packages the DNA so that it can be sorted between the new cells. The DNA is packaged by wrapping it tightly around proteins called histones. In diploid cells (cells with two copies of each chromosome) each chromosome has a homologue. Homologous chromosomes have the same genes, but they can have different versions of those genes. Diagram depicting the cell cycle phases G1, S, and G2, collectively referred to as the Interphase (I). G0 corresponds to cells that do not divide further, such as some nerve cells. M (red) corresponds to mitosis, with the four phases of mitosis designated below in colors yellow, gold, tan, and orange. In the next module, you will examine the details of mitosis. But before you move on, review these key terms and prepare for the module quiz. Key Terms Review the following key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of cells and chromosomes by taking the quiz linked below. diploid gametes genes germ cells haploid homologous homologue karyotype meiosis mitosis sister chromatids somatic cells zygote Multicelled organisms are made of two main types of cells. Somatic cells are all the nonreproductive cells. Somatic cells are diploid and reproduce using mitosis. Diploid cells (2N) have two copies of each chromosome. Germ cells are immature reproductive cells. Germ cells are diploid and divide using meiosis to produce gametes. Gametes are haploid reproductive cells (sperm and eggs). Haploid cells (1N) have one copy of each chromosome. Cell division (mitosis and meiosis) sorts the genetic material (DNA) of a cell. This sorting of genetic material is essential, because most of the essential information for life is stored in the DNA. Each newly formed daughter cell must receive identical information; therefore the DNA in a cell must be copied before cell division begins. The copied DNA strands remain attached near their centers in a region called the centromere. Each copy of the DNA is called a chromatid, and both copies are called a chromosome. The cell packages the DNA so that it can be sorted between the new cells. The DNA is packaged by wrapping it tightly around proteins called histones. In diploid cells (cells with two copies of each chromosome) each chromosome has a homologue. Homologous chromosomes have the same genes, but they can have different versions of those genes. Diagram depicting the cell cycle phases G1, S, and G2, collectively referred to as the Interphase (I). G0 corresponds to cells that do not divide further, such as some nerve cells. M (red) corresponds to mitosis, with the four phases of mitosis designated below in colors yellow, gold, tan, and orange. In the next module, you will examine the details of mitosis. But before you move on, review these key terms and prepare for the module quiz. Review the following key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of cells and chromosomes by taking the quiz linked below. diploid gametes genes germ cells haploid homologous homologue karyotype meiosis mitosis sister chromatids somatic cells zygote   Overview of the Cell Cycle Every living organism goes through various stages of development. For example, human beings go through these stages of development: fetus, infant, child, youth, teenager, young adult, adult. Remember from earlier that cells are living things. They, too, go through a set of programmed stages. The cell cycle is the "life cycle" of a cell. It is the set of stages that a cell goes through during its lifetime. Cells go through five major stages of development: G1, synthesis (S), G2, mitosis (M), and cytokinesis. The events that occur during stages G1, S, and G2 are nearly the same in all types of cells. Together, these three stages of the cell cycle are called interphase. The events that occur during mitosis (M) and cytokinesis stages are different, depending upon the type of cell. The diagram below shows an overview of the stages in a cell's life cycle: Overview of the Cell Cycle By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Notice in the diagram above that we start with one cell on the left side. This is called the parent cell. It is called this because, like a human parent, it reproduces—it makes new cells that are copies of itself. The parent cell goes through the five stages of development in this order — G1, S, G2, M, and cytokinesis. At the end of the development process, two new cells are produced. These cells represent the next generation of cells in this lineage (just as your parents represent one generation and you represent the next generation). Each of the new cells is called a daughter cell. Do not be confused by the use of the word daughter—it does not mean that these are female cells. Regardless of whether they are male or female cells, the newly produced cells are called daughter cells. Notice that the parent cell no longer exists—but the parent cell did not die. Rather, the contents of the parent cell have been split into two new cells. Each of the new cells contains a portion of the original parent cell. Previously, we compared the cell cycle to the phases of human development. Notice here a very important difference between the two: The far end of human development is marked by the death of the individual. The end of the cell cycle, however, results in the formation of new cells. In the diagram "Overview of the Cell Cycle" above, look closely at the parent cell and the two daughter cells. Notice that they look the same. Once again, we revisit the theme of cycles in nature that we discussed above. The cycle generates cells that resemble the cells we started with. In addition, the new cells undergo the same development-and-division process that their parental cell did. For these two reasons, we call this the cell cycle, and draw it like a circle. Similarly, human beings have children, who then have children themselves. (You may have heard this called the circle of life.) Cells do the same thing through the cell cycle. The following diagram shows the cell cycle in circular form. Overview of the Cell Cycle By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC.   Unit Introduction: Cell Division In this unit, you will learn about another major cell process — cell division, or cell reproduction. The word "reproduction" is used in many different scientific and nonscientific settings. Regardless of the setting, though, reproduction has the same basic meaning. Reproduction is defined as "the act of making a copy of the original." With this in mind, the word reproduction can be applied to many different situations. Some of these include parents having a baby, you photocopying a page in your textbook, and a museum staff member making print copies of a famous oil painting. In each case, a relatively close copy of the original has been made. The same principle applies in cell reproduction—making new cells that closely resemble the original cell. Cell reproduction is a complex process that involves many intricate, highly regulated steps. Like metabolism, each of these steps must occur in a particular order. Cell reproduction is important for three reasons: It provides new cells for growth, the replacement of dead cells, and healing. In cells, it ensures the inheritance of genetic information from parent cell to offspring cell. In organisms, it ensures the inheritance of genetic information from one generation to the next. In this unit, you will learn about how cells carry out these critical processes. Your understanding of the information this unit will lay the foundation for understanding heredity and molecular genetics.   Meiosis: Summary Summary Meiosis is a process of reductive cell division that produces haploid (1N) cells from diploid (2N) cells. In animals, gametes are haploid reproductive cells that are produced using the process of meiosis. The gametes from two individuals fuse in the processes of fertilization to produce a diploid zygote. The diploid zygote divides using the process of mitosis to become an adult organism. Meiosis is divided into two phases. In meiosis I, homologous pairs of chromosomes bind together and exchange pieces. This process is called "crossing over" and is essential for generating diversity within a species. By the end of meiosis I the homologous pairs of chromosomes have been sorted into separate cells. In meiosis II, the individual chromatids of a chromosome are sorted into separate cells. By the end of meiosis, a single diploid cell has divided into four haploid cells. When you are ready, review the key terms in this module and take the module quiz. Key Terms The following key terms were introduced in this module. asexual reproduction clones karyotype meiosis II nondisjunction sexual reproduction Meiosis is a process of reductive cell division that produces haploid (1N) cells from diploid (2N) cells. In animals, gametes are haploid reproductive cells that are produced using the process of meiosis. The gametes from two individuals fuse in the processes of fertilization to produce a diploid zygote. The diploid zygote divides using the process of mitosis to become an adult organism. Meiosis is divided into two phases. In meiosis I, homologous pairs of chromosomes bind together and exchange pieces. This process is called "crossing over" and is essential for generating diversity within a species. By the end of meiosis I the homologous pairs of chromosomes have been sorted into separate cells. In meiosis II, the individual chromatids of a chromosome are sorted into separate cells. By the end of meiosis, a single diploid cell has divided into four haploid cells. When you are ready, review the key terms in this module and take the module quiz. The following key terms were introduced in this module. asexual reproduction clones karyotype meiosis II nondisjunction sexual reproduction   Mitosis: Summary Mitosis is the process by which eukaryotic cells divide into two identical daughter cells. The process ensures identical DNA is present in both daughter cells. Organisms use mitosis to grow and replace old or malfunctioning cells. There are checkpoints during the cell cycle that regulate whether or not a cell goes through mitosis. When this regulation goes awry, cells can begin to divide uncontrollably, possibly resulting in cancerous tumors. Mitosis results in identical daughter cells. However, sexually-reproducing organisms need a way to produce gametes, which are unique haploid cells that combine to form new organisms. In the next module, you'll learn more about meiosis, which is the process used to produce gametes. Before you move into the next module, review these key terms and take the module quiz. Key Terms Review the following key terms that were introduced in this module. alleles anaphase centrioles cytokinesis interphase kinetochore metaphase microtubules prophase telophase Mitosis is the process by which eukaryotic cells divide into two identical daughter cells. The process ensures identical DNA is present in both daughter cells. Organisms use mitosis to grow and replace old or malfunctioning cells. There are checkpoints during the cell cycle that regulate whether or not a cell goes through mitosis. When this regulation goes awry, cells can begin to divide uncontrollably, possibly resulting in cancerous tumors. Mitosis results in identical daughter cells. However, sexually-reproducing organisms need a way to produce gametes, which are unique haploid cells that combine to form new organisms. In the next module, you'll learn more about meiosis, which is the process used to produce gametes. Before you move into the next module, review these key terms and take the module quiz. Review the following key terms that were introduced in this module. alleles anaphase centrioles cytokinesis interphase kinetochore metaphase microtubules prophase telophase   Mitosis: Summary Mitosis is the process by which eukaryotic cells divide into two identical daughter cells. The process ensures identical DNA is present in both daughter cells. Organisms use mitosis to grow and replace old or malfunctioning cells. There are checkpoints during the cell cycle that regulate whether or not a cell goes through mitosis. When this regulation goes awry, cells can begin to divide uncontrollably, possibly resulting in cancerous tumors. Mitosis results in identical daughter cells. However, sexually-reproducing organisms need a way to produce gametes, which are unique haploid cells that combine to form new organisms. In the next module, you'll learn more about meiosis, which is the process used to produce gametes. Before you move into the next module, review these key terms and take the module quiz. Key Terms Review the following key terms that were introduced in this module. alleles anaphase centrioles cytokinesis interphase kinetochore metaphase microtubules prophase telophase Mitosis is the process by which eukaryotic cells divide into two identical daughter cells. The process ensures identical DNA is present in both daughter cells. Organisms use mitosis to grow and replace old or malfunctioning cells. There are checkpoints during the cell cycle that regulate whether or not a cell goes through mitosis. When this regulation goes awry, cells can begin to divide uncontrollably, possibly resulting in cancerous tumors. Mitosis results in identical daughter cells. However, sexually-reproducing organisms need a way to produce gametes, which are unique haploid cells that combine to form new organisms. In the next module, you'll learn more about meiosis, which is the process used to produce gametes. Before you move into the next module, review these key terms and take the module quiz. Review the following key terms that were introduced in this module. alleles anaphase centrioles cytokinesis interphase kinetochore metaphase microtubules prophase telophase   Gamete Production When you studied meiosis, you learned about how gametes were formed. But how are alleles dispersed into gametes through the process of meiosis? This activity will help you answer that question as you review the essential components of meiosis needed to understand inheritance. You may wish to review the Meiosis module prior to continuing with this unit. This cell contains a pair of homologous chromosomes. Homologous chromosomes are two chromosomes with the same genes, but which often have different alleles. In our example, we have highlighted a gene. Notice that one of the chromosomes has the "A" version (or allele) of this gene and the other has the "a" allele of this gene. Answer the following questions, and then, in the activity below, drag the cell that depicts the diploid parent cell after the synthesis phase into the box. Each of the homologous chromosomes is now made of two chromatids attached at a central point (called a centromere). After interphase, this cell is now ready to enter meiosis. Drag two cells that depict the cell after meiosis I into the boxes below. Drag four cells that depict the cell after Meiosis II into the boxes below. When you studied meiosis, you learned about how gametes were formed. But how are alleles dispersed into gametes through the process of meiosis? This activity will help you answer that question as you review the essential components of meiosis needed to understand inheritance. You may wish to review the Meiosis module prior to continuing with this unit. This cell contains a pair of homologous chromosomes. Homologous chromosomes are two chromosomes with the same genes, but which often have different alleles. In our example, we have highlighted a gene. Notice that one of the chromosomes has the "A" version (or allele) of this gene and the other has the "a" allele of this gene. Answer the following questions, and then, in the activity below, drag the cell that depicts the diploid parent cell after the synthesis phase into the box. Each of the homologous chromosomes is now made of two chromatids attached at a central point (called a centromere). After interphase, this cell is now ready to enter meiosis. Drag two cells that depict the cell after meiosis I into the boxes below. Drag four cells that depict the cell after Meiosis II into the boxes below.   Introduction to Heredity In The Cell unit component structures of the cell were discussed. One of these components is the DNA, which is arranged into one or more chromosomes. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is a region of a chromosome that has a specific function. For example, genes can contain information required to make a protein. How this happens will be discussed in the Molecular Genetics Unit. DNA carries the information about how proteins are built, and proteins carry out many of the reactions necessary for living organisms. The Proteins module discussed the variety of roles proteins can play in a living organism. Some proteins produced by living organisms determine the traits we can observe. These visible traits are called the phenotype of an organism. For example, protein enzymes in plants catalyze production of the pigments, resulting in flowers of different colors. The color of the flower is one of the observable traits, or the phenotype of the plant. The genetic information that produces these traits is called the genotype of an organism. Depending on the pigment production, the flowers can have a variety of different colors. Flower color is determined by specific genes in the cells. The variations in the same gene are called alleles. In our example, different alleles of the pigment-producing gene can result in more or less pigment, and, consequently, in darker or light flower color. In this unit, you will learn about the genotype and phenotype of diploid organisms. Diploid cells have two copies of each chromosome; haploid cells have only one copy of each chromosome. Because diploid cells have two copies of each chromosome, they also have two copies of every gene. One set of chromosomes (and, therefore, one copy of each gene) is from the mother (or egg) and one set is from the father (or sperm). Diploid cells can have two of the same alleles of a gene, or they can have two different alleles of a gene. Cells that have the same allele are called homozygous (“homo” meaning "same," and “zygous” referring to the reproductive cells produced from meiosis). These cells are called homozygous because all of their reproductive cells (gametes) will have identical alleles. Cells with different alleles are called heterozygous (“hetero” meaning "different") because they will produce reproductive cells that have different alleles of this gene.   Chromosomal Inheritance Human chromosomes are numbered from largest to smallest. Each of the 22 pairs of autosomal chromosomes have an identifying number, from 1 to 22; chromosome 1 is the biggest and chromosome 22 is the smallest. As you already know, the pair of sex chromosomes are named either X or Y. The chromosomes of a cell can be visualized using a process that takes a picture of the cell during mitosis, when chromosomes are easily visible. The picture that is produced is called a karyotype. A karyotype visualizes the chromosomes of a cell. By National Human Genome Research Institute (Sky spectral karyotype) Public Domain Karyotypes can be used to identify chromosomal abnormalities in cells or in developing fetuses. Amniocentesis is a medical procedure used to sample fetal cells from a pregnant mother. These cells, which are rapidly dividing, can be used to create a karyotype of the fetus. This karyotype can then help identify potential chromosomal abnormalities in the developing child. Abnormalities could include extra chromosomes, missing chromosomes, and even extra or missing pieces of chromosomes. By National Human Genome Research Institute (Down Syndrome Karyotype) Public Domain This karyotype has an extra chromosome 21. This condition is called “trisomy 21” because the cell has three ("tri") of these chromosomes instead of the usual two. This condition is more commonly called “Down syndrome.” There are relatively few examples of such large-scale chromosomal anomalies. Down syndrome results from an extra copy of one of the smallest chromosomes. Extra or missing copies of sex chromosomes can also result in viable embryos. Embryos with extra or missing chromosomes are often nonviable, and other chromosomal anomalies are not generally seen. Aneuploidy is the condition of having too many or too few chromosomes, which results from errors in meiosis. If crossing-over does not occur correctly, the chromosomes can have extra pieces or missing pieces. If the chromosomes do not separate properly during anaphase, the resulting cells can have extra or missing chromosomes. This improper separation of chromosomes is called nondisjunction. Nondisjunction can occur in either meiosis I or meiosis II. The following activity looks at aneuploidy that results from nondisjunction in Meiosis I. Drag the two cells from the choices on the right that would depict this cell after Meiosis I, if nondisjunction occurs. If nondisjunction occurs in Meiosis I, Meiosis II will still likely occur normally. The activity below represents the results after Meiosis I if nondisjunction occurs. Drag the correct cells that would result if, after the nondisjunction in Meiosis I, Meiosis II occurs normally. Nondisjunction can also occur at Meiosis II. Complete the following activity to learn more. Drag the four cells from the choices on the right that would depict this cell after Meiosis II, if the process occurs normally in the cell on the left and nondisjunction occurs in the cell on the right.   Codominance So far, You've only learned about genes with two alleles — that is, two options for a gene coming from either parent — present in a chromosome pair. However, more than two alleles may be present in a population, resulting in what is referred to as a multiple-allele system. Human A, B, and O blood groups exist due to three possible alleles of the ABO gene, which codes for a protein that modifies carbohydrates present on red blood cells (Components of the Membrane). The A and B alleles code for two versions of the protein, while the O allele is mutated and does not code for a functional protein. A and B are codominant, which means that if the individual has both A and B alleles, he will be of AB blood group, which expresses both proteins. On the other hand, O is recessive, so only the homozygous recessive individuals will have an O phenotype (blood group O). When representing the three different alleles for blood type we represent the codominant alleles by A and B for the A protein and B protein respectively. The recessive O allele is represented by lower case ‘i.’ On the left is a diagram of the allele combinations resulting in the different ABO blood groups (middle and right columns). By Pr. Dr. Raynal (Wikipedia) (Allèles ABO) CC-BY-SA-3.0 When referring to human blood groups, you may have heard references to “A negative” or “O positive.” The term “positive/negative” here refers to the presence or absence of a membrane glycoprotein called Rh. The Rh glycoprotein was named after Rhesus monkeys because some of the original studies on the Rh factor were done on these animals. The expression of this protein presents a simple dominance pattern, with the presence of the Rh molecule (Rh positive) being dominant over the absence (Rh negative). So a person's blood is said to be A positive (A+) if both A and Rh molecules are present on that person’s red blood cells. If the immune system of an Rh negative person is exposed to Rh positive red blood cells, it will produce antibodies against the Rh molecule. The next time the immune system meets Rh positive red blood cells, the antibodies will attack and destroy them. This scenario is rather unusual, except when a mother who is Rh negative is carrying an Rh positive baby. After the first pregnancy, her immune system develops anti-Rh antibodies, and in subsequent pregnancies these antibodies can cross the placenta and attack the red blood cells of the fetus. This results in hemolytic anemia, and could seriously affect the fetus. Luckily, Rh negative mothers today receive an anti-Rh antibody injection that prevents development of the anti-Rh response. Another example of codominance is sickle cell anemia and sickle cell trait. In sickle cell anemia, hemoglobin — the protein that transports oxygen in the blood — is defective, giving the red blood cells a characteristic “sickled” appearance. Normal (round) and sickled (elongated) red blood cells in a blood smear. By Dr Graham Beards (Sickle cells) CC BY-SA 3.0 A change in one amino acid in the structure of hemoglobin makes it defective: the blood cells cannot transport oxygen effectively, and they accumulate in the blood vessels. Patients homozygous for the defective allele have sickle cell anemia. Heterozygotes (having one “good” and one “bad” allele for hemoglobin) will present both types of hemoglobin. That condition is called sickle cell trait, where the individuals will present many red blood cells that become sickled under conditions of extreme physical exertion or low atmospheric oxygen. So while the phenotype can be considered intermediate, in fact it is actually a case of codominance. Interestingly, the sickle cell trait protects against malaria infection, and therefore remains prevalent in Sub-Saharan Africa, where malaria is endemic. So far, You've only learned about genes with two alleles — that is, two options for a gene coming from either parent — present in a chromosome pair. However, more than two alleles may be present in a population, resulting in what is referred to as a multiple-allele system. Human A, B, and O blood groups exist due to three possible alleles of the ABO gene, which codes for a protein that modifies carbohydrates present on red blood cells (Components of the Membrane). The A and B alleles code for two versions of the protein, while the O allele is mutated and does not code for a functional protein. A and B are codominant, which means that if the individual has both A and B alleles, he will be of AB blood group, which expresses both proteins. On the other hand, O is recessive, so only the homozygous recessive individuals will have an O phenotype (blood group O). When representing the three different alleles for blood type we represent the codominant alleles by A and B for the A protein and B protein respectively. The recessive O allele is represented by lower case ‘i.’ On the left is a diagram of the allele combinations resulting in the different ABO blood groups (middle and right columns). By Pr. Dr. Raynal (Wikipedia) (Allèles ABO) CC-BY-SA-3.0 When referring to human blood groups, you may have heard references to “A negative” or “O positive.” The term “positive/negative” here refers to the presence or absence of a membrane glycoprotein called Rh. The Rh glycoprotein was named after Rhesus monkeys because some of the original studies on the Rh factor were done on these animals. The expression of this protein presents a simple dominance pattern, with the presence of the Rh molecule (Rh positive) being dominant over the absence (Rh negative). So a person's blood is said to be A positive (A+) if both A and Rh molecules are present on that person’s red blood cells. If the immune system of an Rh negative person is exposed to Rh positive red blood cells, it will produce antibodies against the Rh molecule. The next time the immune system meets Rh positive red blood cells, the antibodies will attack and destroy them. This scenario is rather unusual, except when a mother who is Rh negative is carrying an Rh positive baby. After the first pregnancy, her immune system develops anti-Rh antibodies, and in subsequent pregnancies these antibodies can cross the placenta and attack the red blood cells of the fetus. This results in hemolytic anemia, and could seriously affect the fetus. Luckily, Rh negative mothers today receive an anti-Rh antibody injection that prevents development of the anti-Rh response. Another example of codominance is sickle cell anemia and sickle cell trait. In sickle cell anemia, hemoglobin — the protein that transports oxygen in the blood — is defective, giving the red blood cells a characteristic “sickled” appearance. Normal (round) and sickled (elongated) red blood cells in a blood smear. By Dr Graham Beards (Sickle cells) CC BY-SA 3.0 A change in one amino acid in the structure of hemoglobin makes it defective: the blood cells cannot transport oxygen effectively, and they accumulate in the blood vessels. Patients homozygous for the defective allele have sickle cell anemia. Heterozygotes (having one “good” and one “bad” allele for hemoglobin) will present both types of hemoglobin. That condition is called sickle cell trait, where the individuals will present many red blood cells that become sickled under conditions of extreme physical exertion or low atmospheric oxygen. So while the phenotype can be considered intermediate, in fact it is actually a case of codominance. Interestingly, the sickle cell trait protects against malaria infection, and therefore remains prevalent in Sub-Saharan Africa, where malaria is endemic.   Introduce Expression Plasmid Into Host Once the synthetic gene has been successfully spliced into the expression plasmid, the complete expression plasmid must be taken into the bacterial cell. This is a delicate process that must take place under special conditions. In these conditions, the expression plasmid is mixed with bacterial cells, allowing some of the cells to take up one circular DNA molecule. The origin of replication on the expression plasmid will cause the bacteria to replicate the plasmid along with its own chromosomal DNA. It is not possible to determine which cells have taken up the expression plasmid. Consequently, the cells are grown in the presence of an antibiotic and only those cells who have obtained the expression plasmid will live because of the gene for antibiotic resistance that is also present on the expression plasmid. Production of HuGH The cells containing the plasmid would be grown in culture media to a high density of cells to produce a high yield of huGH. Lactose would be added to the culture to cause the lac repressor to come off the DNA. This allows RNA polymerase to begin transcription of the growth hormone gene on the plasmid. The mRNA would be translated on the bacterial ribosomes, producing human growth hormone. The cells containing the plasmid would be grown in culture media to a high density of cells to produce a high yield of huGH. Lactose would be added to the culture to cause the lac repressor to come off the DNA. This allows RNA polymerase to begin transcription of the growth hormone gene on the plasmid. The mRNA would be translated on the bacterial ribosomes, producing human growth hormone.   Application Spotlight: Infectious Diseases Microevolution and Infectious Diseases Many species have very short generation times ranging from minutes (some bacteria) to a few weeks or months (many insects, some weeds). We can track evolutionary changes in populations of these organisms. They may change in ways that are important to us. For example, disease organisms may shift to human hosts, evolve to evade vaccines, or evolve to resist drugs. Pests and weeds may also evolve in ways that make them more harmful or harder to control. Scientists and doctors can use what we know about microevolution and the mechanisms that drive evolution to help tackle these problems in the “real world” not just in the realm of academia. In our first example of microevolution and infectious disease, we will explore the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), which causes Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). In AIDS, HIV disables the human immune system by depleting CD4 T-cells. The HIV virus prefers to infect these cells. HIV is an interesting virus in that it uses RNA to encode its genetic material instead of DNA like most viruses. A schematic diagram of an HIV virus particle. By Daniel Beyer (multiplication of HIV) CC BY-SA 3.0 HIV has special enzymes to help it make copies of itself within the host cell. Some of these are reverse transcriptase, integrase, and protease. Each one is essential to the virus: Reverse transcriptase converts the HIV virus RNA into DNA that can be recognized by the infected human cell’s DNA replication machinery as well as human RNA polymerase. Integrase inserts the DNA made from the HIV RNA (using reverse transcriptase) into one of the human chromosomes. In this way, the virus (which is not living - see Application Spotlight: Viruses) tricks the human host cell into producing more viral RNA, which the virus cannot do itself. HIV’s protease cuts the viral proteins that are manufactured by the host cell into their functional forms. AIDS was first recognized and tied to the HIV virus in the early 1980s. At that time a diagnosis of HIV infection was considered a death sentence as there were no available treatments. The first breakthrough in HIV treatment came about in 1986 when zidovudine (also known as AZT) was introduced in the United States. AZT works by blocking the activity of the HIV reverse transcriptase enzyme. AZT was hailed as a HUGE medical breakthrough, and it worked well at keeping the viral infection in check. AZT would remain the only treatment available for HIV until the early 1990s when other reverse transcriptase inhibitor drugs as well as drugs that inhibited the HIV protease were introduced. With AZT and the new drugs available the scientific and medical communities thought that the struggles of managing this disease were over! Having HIV was no longer a death sentence! Infected patients could simply be given any one of these drugs, and live fairly normal lives as long as they continued treatment. However, by the mid 1990s, it became apparent that there was a problem. Patients whose infections had been well controlled (even for many years) started once again to exhibit symptoms of AIDS and their health deteriorated rapidly. While this turn of events may seem perplexing, the explanation has everything to do with microevolution. Apply what you know about evolution, recognizing that the HIV virus can complete a replication cycle in 1-2 days. Second, note that the effectiveness of a drug often depends on how well it binds to a protein of a particular shape. Drugs used against HIV will be effective only if they match up with and bind to specific sites on the enzymes HIV uses to replicate. By the late 1990s, doctors and scientists came to the conclusion that in order to continue to treat HIV effectively, they needed to approach the problem from multiple fronts - as you just discovered in the above Learn By Doing activity. New drugs were developed that targeted different parts of the virus, current drugs were administered together, and when it became clear that a drug was no longer working for a patient, the patient was given a different one. The end result of all of this work was the development of what is known today as Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy or HAART. HAART generally consists of one protease inhibitor given in concert with one or two other anti-HIV drugs that target different aspects of the virus. To date, there are over 30 drugs approved for use in the treatment of HIV. HIV Viral Replication Cycle and HAART Drug Targets This figure shows the replication cycle of the HIV virus with the current drug targets indicated with an X. By Daniel Beyer (multiplication of HIV) CC BY-SA 3.0 While doctors and scientists have made great strides in combating HIV, the “war” on this virus is far from over. In 2010, there were approximately 34 million people infected with HIV worldwide and 1.8 million deaths associated with HIV. Rates of HIV infection and the death toll from AIDS are disproportionately high in Sub-Saharan Africa and in other areas without access to HAART. Even in wealthier nations, the problem of drug resistance continues. As of 2009 researchers were tracking 93 different common drug-resistance mutations worldwide. Today the World Health Organization (WHO) and other groups are working to raise HIV awareness, reduce infection rates, and increase access to drugs among those already infected. Researchers are also working to develop new drugs and vaccines. Now that we have learned how our understanding of evolution can be used to help fight HIV, let’s see if we can apply that knowledge to an even more complicated infectious disease: malaria. Malaria is an ancient disease that has been around for over 50,000 years! Malaria is caused by four parasites of the Plasmodium genus: Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium vivax, Plasmodium ovale, and Plasmodium malariae. These protists (eukaryotes) have complicated life-cycles that require both a mosquito host and a human host, and the parasite undergoes many developmental stages within these two hosts. Humans become infected with the malarial parasites when they are bitten by an infected mosquito. Similarly, uninfected mosquitoes can pick up the parasites when they ingest blood from an infected human. Life Cycle of Malarial Parasites This diagram shows a detailed overview of the life cycle of the Plasmodium parasites that cause malaria. You need not learn the details, but the diagram helps you to see the complexity of the Plasmodium life cycle. By CDC (Malaria) Public Domain Because of its complex life cycle and the eukaryotic nature of this organism, malaria has been a difficult disease to combat. However, this complexity also means that there are more potential ways to intervene, prevent, and treat this disease. The parasite could be targeted with anti-malarial drugs in the human host. Other methods could be used to prevent the parasite from surviving in the mosquito host. Or measures can be taken to prevent the human host from being bitten by mosquitoes. This diagram shows the interactions between the Plasmodium parasite, the human host, and the insect host that all contribute to malaria disease and serve as potential targets for preventive measures or treatments. We have now explored two corners of the “Interactions in Malaria” triangle - the mosquito vector and the malaria parasite. As you can see from the question above, there are several ways in which malarial parasites can evolve resistance to anti-malarial medications. This is a real world problem in the fight against malaria. Resistance to almost every drug available to prevent or treat malaria has been reported, and the rates of resistance are only increasing. Insecticide resistant mosquitoes are also contributing to the problem because many areas where malaria is rampant rely heavily on pesticide control of the mosquito populations to curtail the spread of malaria. If the mosquitoes are no longer killed by the pesticide, then there will be more mosquitoes around to transmit malaria. The last corner of our triangle is the human host. The alleles of many human genes have been determined to alter a person’s susceptibility to malarial infections. The most famous and arguably the most important is the sickle cell allele. People homozygous for the sickle-cell allele suffer from sickle cell anemia. Their red blood cells are misshapen, resembling a sickle. Images of Normal and Sickle Red Blood Cells Sickle-cell disease is indicated by the presence of sickle shaped red blood cells. As shown here, normal, healthy red blood cells are round and plump while sickle red blood cells are “C” shaped and somewhat flattened. By United States, National Human Genome Research Institute (Sickle Cell) Public Domain A sickle is a “C”-shaped farm tool that is used to help cut down crops. The deformed red bloods cells in sickle cell anemia get their name from this agricultural tool. By Thamizhpparithi Maari (Sickle) CC BY-SA 3.0 Sickle cell anemia is caused by a recessive allele (we will call it “a”). Three genotypes are possible: AA Aa aa homozygous dominant heterozygous carriers homozygous recessive Normal red blood cells, with no sickled blood cells. No negative health effects related to sickling of blood cells. Most blood cells normal, 20-40% are sickled; few negative health effects. Suffer from sickle-cell anemia, a condition in which sickled red blood cells are abundant and cause pain, swelling, poor circulation, and many other negative health effects. Without modern care, typically die without producing offspring. Good work. You’ve cracked the mystery! There is a situation called heterozygote advantage at work here. Why does a gene that alters red blood cells have anything to do with malaria? The malaria parasite spends a large part of its life cycle in red blood cells. The red blood cells of those with the Aa genotype are less hospitable to Plasmodium than those of an average (AA) individual. For example, in an Aa person the red blood cells may sickle in response to being invaded by Plasmodium. This will lead to the death of the newly invaded red blood cell, and the parasites will die with it. AA Aa aa Without malaria Highest fitness; no sickle cell anemia symptoms. Slightly reduced fitness; mild symptoms related to sickled cells. Lowest fitness; full effect of sickle cell anemia disorder. With malaria Moderate fitness; more likely to die of malaria or suffer reduced fertility due to its effects. Highest overall fitness; more likely to survive malaria and reproduce well. Lowest fitness; full effect of sickle cell anemia disorder. Malaria is a serious disease with an estimated 216 million cases and over 600,000 deaths in 2010. In Sub-Saharan Africa, where malaria rates are highest, a child under the age of five dies every minute from this disease. Doctors and scientists are working to help prevent and treat this disease by designing new treatments, developing vaccines, working to prevent mosquitoes from transmitting the malaria parasites, and by studying the interrelatedness between the parasite, the insect host and the human host. At the center of the connection between parasite, insect, and human lies evolution. HIV and malaria are just two examples where an understanding of evolutionary principles has proven to be a critical component in the effort to fight infectious disease. Other prominent examples include tuberculosis, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), avian influenza, and pertussis. Evolution is at work all around us, and every population of every organism is subjected to it. Many species have very short generation times ranging from minutes (some bacteria) to a few weeks or months (many insects, some weeds). We can track evolutionary changes in populations of these organisms. They may change in ways that are important to us. For example, disease organisms may shift to human hosts, evolve to evade vaccines, or evolve to resist drugs. Pests and weeds may also evolve in ways that make them more harmful or harder to control. Scientists and doctors can use what we know about microevolution and the mechanisms that drive evolution to help tackle these problems in the “real world” not just in the realm of academia. In our first example of microevolution and infectious disease, we will explore the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), which causes Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). In AIDS, HIV disables the human immune system by depleting CD4 T-cells. The HIV virus prefers to infect these cells. HIV is an interesting virus in that it uses RNA to encode its genetic material instead of DNA like most viruses. A schematic diagram of an HIV virus particle. By Daniel Beyer (multiplication of HIV) CC BY-SA 3.0 HIV has special enzymes to help it make copies of itself within the host cell. Some of these are reverse transcriptase, integrase, and protease. Each one is essential to the virus: Reverse transcriptase converts the HIV virus RNA into DNA that can be recognized by the infected human cell’s DNA replication machinery as well as human RNA polymerase. Integrase inserts the DNA made from the HIV RNA (using reverse transcriptase) into one of the human chromosomes. In this way, the virus (which is not living - see Application Spotlight: Viruses) tricks the human host cell into producing more viral RNA, which the virus cannot do itself. HIV’s protease cuts the viral proteins that are manufactured by the host cell into their functional forms. AIDS was first recognized and tied to the HIV virus in the early 1980s. At that time a diagnosis of HIV infection was considered a death sentence as there were no available treatments. The first breakthrough in HIV treatment came about in 1986 when zidovudine (also known as AZT) was introduced in the United States. AZT works by blocking the activity of the HIV reverse transcriptase enzyme. AZT was hailed as a HUGE medical breakthrough, and it worked well at keeping the viral infection in check. AZT would remain the only treatment available for HIV until the early 1990s when other reverse transcriptase inhibitor drugs as well as drugs that inhibited the HIV protease were introduced. With AZT and the new drugs available the scientific and medical communities thought that the struggles of managing this disease were over! Having HIV was no longer a death sentence! Infected patients could simply be given any one of these drugs, and live fairly normal lives as long as they continued treatment. However, by the mid 1990s, it became apparent that there was a problem. Patients whose infections had been well controlled (even for many years) started once again to exhibit symptoms of AIDS and their health deteriorated rapidly. While this turn of events may seem perplexing, the explanation has everything to do with microevolution.   Images of Living Cells 