14. [u'energy', u'energies', u'pathway']
   Introduction to Carbohydrates After examining carbohydrate molecules, students will be able to describe the three major functions of carbohydrates. Carbohydrates One of the simplest of the biological molecules is the carbohydrate. The name is descriptive of the character of this class of molecules since they all have the general formula of a hydrated carbon. (C(H2O))n We are starting with this class of molecules because they are the basis for the classical naming of the enantiomers encountered in biological molecules. But before we examine the structure of these compounds, let us look at some of the basic uses/functions of the carbohydrates. The primary function of carbohydrates is as a source of energy. You will recall that molecules are a collection of atoms connected by covalent bonds. In general, single covalent bonds can be represented as having approximately 100 Kcal/mole of energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. The most common carbohydrate in nature is glucose, which has the general formula (C(H2O))6 or C6H12O6. When glucose is completely metabolized in a cell, 673 kcal of energy is released for each mole of glucose. The net equation for this process of glucose oxidation can be written as follows: (C(H2O))6 + 6 O2 -------------> 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + 673 kcal (energy) The challenge for the cell is to capture released energy and convert it to a useful form so that it can do work (e.g. power movement or build new macromolecules). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism section of the course. The second function for the carbohydrates is structure. In this case, structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has, but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. Another example is the peptido-glycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. In this case, the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose, but the end result is the formation of a matrix. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated. A third function for carbohydrates is that of cell recognition and signaling. Just as we identified a peptido-glycan as a conjunction (conjugation) of a peptide with a polysaccharide, other complex carbohydrates are conjugated to other molecules to form glycoproteins (carbohydrates linked to proteins) and glycolipids (carbohydrates linked to lipids). Because a very large number of structures can be made from a few monosaccharides (simple carbohydrates), a very large number of different structures can be made from a few simple carbohydrates, as will be seen later. This large number of different structures can therefore be used as unique signals for identification of individual cell types. Video Lecture One of the simplest of the biological molecules is the carbohydrate. The name is descriptive of the character of this class of molecules since they all have the general formula of a hydrated carbon. (C(H2O))n We are starting with this class of molecules because they are the basis for the classical naming of the enantiomers encountered in biological molecules. But before we examine the structure of these compounds, let us look at some of the basic uses/functions of the carbohydrates. The primary function of carbohydrates is as a source of energy. You will recall that molecules are a collection of atoms connected by covalent bonds. In general, single covalent bonds can be represented as having approximately 100 Kcal/mole of energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. The most common carbohydrate in nature is glucose, which has the general formula (C(H2O))6 or C6H12O6. When glucose is completely metabolized in a cell, 673 kcal of energy is released for each mole of glucose. The net equation for this process of glucose oxidation can be written as follows: (C(H2O))6 + 6 O2 -------------> 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + 673 kcal (energy) The challenge for the cell is to capture released energy and convert it to a useful form so that it can do work (e.g. power movement or build new macromolecules). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism section of the course. The second function for the carbohydrates is structure. In this case, structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has, but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. Another example is the peptido-glycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. In this case, the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose, but the end result is the formation of a matrix. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated. A third function for carbohydrates is that of cell recognition and signaling. Just as we identified a peptido-glycan as a conjunction (conjugation) of a peptide with a polysaccharide, other complex carbohydrates are conjugated to other molecules to form glycoproteins (carbohydrates linked to proteins) and glycolipids (carbohydrates linked to lipids). Because a very large number of structures can be made from a few monosaccharides (simple carbohydrates), a very large number of different structures can be made from a few simple carbohydrates, as will be seen later. This large number of different structures can therefore be used as unique signals for identification of individual cell types.   Introduction to Carbohydrates After examining carbohydrate molecules, students will be able to describe the three major functions of carbohydrates. Carbohydrates One of the simplest of the biological molecules is the carbohydrate. The name is descriptive of the character of this class of molecules since they all have the general formula of a hydrated carbon. (C(H2O))n We are starting with this class of molecules because they are the basis for the classical naming of the enantiomers encountered in biological molecules. But before we examine the structure of these compounds, let us look at some of the basic uses/functions of the carbohydrates. The primary function of carbohydrates is as a source of energy. You will recall that molecules are a collection of atoms connected by covalent bonds. In general, single covalent bonds can be represented as having approximately 100 Kcal/mole of energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. The most common carbohydrate in nature is glucose, which has the general formula (C(H2O))6 or C6H12O6. When glucose is completely metabolized in a cell, 673 kcal of energy is released for each mole of glucose. The net equation for this process of glucose oxidation can be written as follows: (C(H2O))6 + 6 O2 -------------> 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + 673 kcal (energy) The challenge for the cell is to capture released energy and convert it to a useful form so that it can do work (e.g. power movement or build new macromolecules). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism section of the course. The second function for the carbohydrates is structure. In this case, structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has, but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. Another example is the peptido-glycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. In this case, the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose, but the end result is the formation of a matrix. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated. A third function for carbohydrates is that of cell recognition and signaling. Just as we identified a peptido-glycan as a conjunction (conjugation) of a peptide with a polysaccharide, other complex carbohydrates are conjugated to other molecules to form glycoproteins (carbohydrates linked to proteins) and glycolipids (carbohydrates linked to lipids). Because a very large number of structures can be made from a few monosaccharides (simple carbohydrates), a very large number of different structures can be made from a few simple carbohydrates, as will be seen later. This large number of different structures can therefore be used as unique signals for identification of individual cell types. Video Lecture One of the simplest of the biological molecules is the carbohydrate. The name is descriptive of the character of this class of molecules since they all have the general formula of a hydrated carbon. (C(H2O))n We are starting with this class of molecules because they are the basis for the classical naming of the enantiomers encountered in biological molecules. But before we examine the structure of these compounds, let us look at some of the basic uses/functions of the carbohydrates. The primary function of carbohydrates is as a source of energy. You will recall that molecules are a collection of atoms connected by covalent bonds. In general, single covalent bonds can be represented as having approximately 100 Kcal/mole of energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. The most common carbohydrate in nature is glucose, which has the general formula (C(H2O))6 or C6H12O6. When glucose is completely metabolized in a cell, 673 kcal of energy is released for each mole of glucose. The net equation for this process of glucose oxidation can be written as follows: (C(H2O))6 + 6 O2 -------------> 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + 673 kcal (energy) The challenge for the cell is to capture released energy and convert it to a useful form so that it can do work (e.g. power movement or build new macromolecules). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism section of the course. The second function for the carbohydrates is structure. In this case, structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has, but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. Another example is the peptido-glycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. In this case, the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose, but the end result is the formation of a matrix. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated. A third function for carbohydrates is that of cell recognition and signaling. Just as we identified a peptido-glycan as a conjunction (conjugation) of a peptide with a polysaccharide, other complex carbohydrates are conjugated to other molecules to form glycoproteins (carbohydrates linked to proteins) and glycolipids (carbohydrates linked to lipids). Because a very large number of structures can be made from a few monosaccharides (simple carbohydrates), a very large number of different structures can be made from a few simple carbohydrates, as will be seen later. This large number of different structures can therefore be used as unique signals for identification of individual cell types.   Metabolism Metabolism Living organisms consume food, in the form of carbohydrates, fats, and amino acids, to live. The process of metabolism breaks these complex biomolecules into simple molecules with the release of energy. The most common form of energy is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This high energy phosphorylated compound is used as a energy source in many cellular processes and for bio-mechanical functions, such as muscle contraction or ion transport across membranes. The resultant compounds and energy released from food are used to synthesize complex molecules for the specialized needs of the cell or organism. The transformation of ingested food to energy and simple compounds, or the synthesis of complex molecules, is performed by a series of enzymatic reactions. Collectively, these enzymes, and their substrates and products, are referred to as a metabolic pathway. Degradative or catabolic pathways generally release energy and electrons from oxidative processes, i.e. Metabolism of Glucose the electrons, which are carried on organic electron carriers, can be used to generate additional energy, or can be used for synthetic purposes. Synthetic, or anabolic consume energy and are generally reductive, requiring electrons. In this section of the course we will investigate in some detail the production of energy from glucose and how this process is regulated to maintain homeostasis. Since the entire process of metabolism is complex, it is useful to discuss the general features of the metabolic pathways that are involved in converting sugars, amino acids, and fats to energy. Important features of pathways include: input and output compounds, the cellular location of the pathway, the type of energy the pathway produces. Sugars are degraded as follows: Glycolysis is the first pathway used to degrade sugars and it is located in the cytoplasm. The simple monosaccharide, glucose, is considered to be the entry point to this pathway. The three carbon keto acid, pyruvate, is the final product of glycolysis. Glycolysis generates a small amount of energy in the form of the high energy compound ATP and high energy electrons, carried on organic electron carriers. These electrons are brought into the mitochondria. The citric acid cycle, or tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA), is the second pathway in the degradation of sugars. It is located in the matrix of the mitochondria. Pyruvate enters the TCA cycle by loss of CO2 to produce a key metabolic intermediate, acetyl-CoA. The remaining two carbons from pyruvate are lost as carbon dioxide in the TCA cycle. The energy released by these oxidations is stored on high-energy electron carriers. The electron transport chain consists of a number of proteins that exist as four distinct complexes in the inner membrane of the mitochondria. This pathway takes the electrons from the high energy electron carriers and deposits them on oxygen, generating water. This releases energy, which is used to produce a high concentration of protons, or a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. ATP synthase, which is final step in energy generation, utilizes the proton gradient to synthesize ATP. This multi-protein enzyme complex also resides in the inner mitochondrial matrix. Amino Acids are largely degraded by entry into the TCA cycle, followed by electron transport, and finally ATP synthesis from the proton gradient. Fats, in the form of triglycerides, are first broken down into glycerol and fatty acids. The fatty acids are oxidized by the beta-oxidation pathway, which coverts the carbon in the fatty acid to Acetyl-CoA. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle, this is again followed by electron transport, and then ATP synthesis. The location and connections between these degradative pathways is shown below: Metabolism Overview OVERVIEW OF METABOLISM. Click the radio buttons to outline in yellow the four key pathways: glycolysis, the TCA cycle, electron transport, and ATP synthesis and show the flow of carbon atoms, electrons, and protons through each pathway. Glucose that is brought into the cell via the glucose transporter can suffer two fates, oxidation or storage as glycogen. Oxidation occurs in glycolysis and the TCA cycle, releasing the carbon atoms in glucose as CO2. Note that oxygen is not used until the end of the electron transport chain. High energy electrons, symbolized as orange balls are carried on organic electron carriers to the electron transport chain. As these electrons move through the four complexes, protons are pumped from the mitochondrial matrix across the inner mitochondrial membrane. As these protons flow back through the membrane via ATP synthase, ATP is generated. Many of these pathways, with minor modifications, are reversed for synthetic purposes. For example, glucose can be synthesized from pyruvate, fatty acids from acetyl-CoA, and amino acids from intermediates in the TCA cycle.   Metabolism Metabolism Living organisms consume food, in the form of carbohydrates, fats, and amino acids, to live. The process of metabolism breaks these complex biomolecules into simple molecules with the release of energy. The most common form of energy is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This high energy phosphorylated compound is used as a energy source in many cellular processes and for bio-mechanical functions, such as muscle contraction or ion transport across membranes. The resultant compounds and energy released from food are used to synthesize complex molecules for the specialized needs of the cell or organism. The transformation of ingested food to energy and simple compounds, or the synthesis of complex molecules, is performed by a series of enzymatic reactions. Collectively, these enzymes, and their substrates and products, are referred to as a metabolic pathway. Degradative or catabolic pathways generally release energy and electrons from oxidative processes, i.e. Metabolism of Glucose the electrons, which are carried on organic electron carriers, can be used to generate additional energy, or can be used for synthetic purposes. Synthetic, or anabolic consume energy and are generally reductive, requiring electrons. In this section of the course we will investigate in some detail the production of energy from glucose and how this process is regulated to maintain homeostasis. Since the entire process of metabolism is complex, it is useful to discuss the general features of the metabolic pathways that are involved in converting sugars, amino acids, and fats to energy. Important features of pathways include: input and output compounds, the cellular location of the pathway, the type of energy the pathway produces. Sugars are degraded as follows: Glycolysis is the first pathway used to degrade sugars and it is located in the cytoplasm. The simple monosaccharide, glucose, is considered to be the entry point to this pathway. The three carbon keto acid, pyruvate, is the final product of glycolysis. Glycolysis generates a small amount of energy in the form of the high energy compound ATP and high energy electrons, carried on organic electron carriers. These electrons are brought into the mitochondria. The citric acid cycle, or tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA), is the second pathway in the degradation of sugars. It is located in the matrix of the mitochondria. Pyruvate enters the TCA cycle by loss of CO2 to produce a key metabolic intermediate, acetyl-CoA. The remaining two carbons from pyruvate are lost as carbon dioxide in the TCA cycle. The energy released by these oxidations is stored on high-energy electron carriers. The electron transport chain consists of a number of proteins that exist as four distinct complexes in the inner membrane of the mitochondria. This pathway takes the electrons from the high energy electron carriers and deposits them on oxygen, generating water. This releases energy, which is used to produce a high concentration of protons, or a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. ATP synthase, which is final step in energy generation, utilizes the proton gradient to synthesize ATP. This multi-protein enzyme complex also resides in the inner mitochondrial matrix. Amino Acids are largely degraded by entry into the TCA cycle, followed by electron transport, and finally ATP synthesis from the proton gradient. Fats, in the form of triglycerides, are first broken down into glycerol and fatty acids. The fatty acids are oxidized by the beta-oxidation pathway, which coverts the carbon in the fatty acid to Acetyl-CoA. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle, this is again followed by electron transport, and then ATP synthesis. The location and connections between these degradative pathways is shown below: Metabolism Overview CLICK ON THE RADIO BUTTONS to show the flow of carbon atoms, electrons, and protons through each pathway. Overview of Metabolism: The four key pathways, glycolysis, the TCA cycle, electron transport, and ATP synthesis are outlined in yellow. Glucose that is brought into the cell via the glucose transporter can suffer two fates, oxidation or storage as glycogen. Oxidation occurs in glycolysis and the TCA cycle, releasing the carbon atoms in glucose as CO2. Note that oxygen is not used until the end of the electron transport chain. High energy electrons, symbolized as orange balls are carried on organic electron carriers to the electron transport chain. As these electrons move through the four complexes, protons are pumped from the mitochondrial matrix across the inner mitochondrial membrane. As these protons flow back through the membrane via ATP synthase, ATP is generated. Many of these pathways, with minor modifications, are reversed for synthetic purposes. For example, glucose can be synthesized from pyruvate, fatty acids from acetyl-CoA, and amino acids from intermediates in the TCA cycle.   Metabolism Metabolism Living organisms consume food, in the form of carbohydrates, fats, and amino acids, to live. The process of metabolism breaks these complex biomolecules into simple molecules with the release of energy. The most common form of energy is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This high energy phosphorylated compound is used as a energy source in many cellular processes and for bio-mechanical functions, such as muscle contraction or ion transport across membranes. The resultant compounds and energy released from food are used to synthesize complex molecules for the specialized needs of the cell or organism. The transformation of ingested food to energy and simple compounds, or the synthesis of complex molecules, is performed by a series of enzymatic reactions. Collectively, these enzymes, and their substrates and products, are referred to as a metabolic pathway. Degradative or catabolic pathways generally release energy and electrons from oxidative processes, i.e. Metabolism of Glucose the electrons, which are carried on organic electron carriers, can be used to generate additional energy, or can be used for synthetic purposes. Synthetic, or anabolic consume energy and are generally reductive, requiring electrons. In this section of the course we will investigate in some detail the production of energy from glucose and how this process is regulated to maintain homeostasis. Since the entire process of metabolism is complex, it is useful to discuss the general features of the metabolic pathways that are involved in converting sugars, amino acids, and fats to energy. Important features of pathways include: input and output compounds, the cellular location of the pathway, the type of energy the pathway produces. Sugars are degraded as follows: Glycolysis is the first pathway used to degrade sugars and it is located in the cytoplasm. The simple monosaccharide, glucose, is considered to be the entry point to this pathway. The three carbon keto acid, pyruvate, is the final product of glycolysis. Glycolysis generates a small amount of energy in the form of the high energy compound ATP and high energy electrons, carried on organic electron carriers. These electrons are brought into the mitochondria. The citric acid cycle, or tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA), is the second pathway in the degradation of sugars. It is located in the matrix of the mitochondria. Pyruvate enters the TCA cycle by loss of CO2 to produce a key metabolic intermediate, acetyl-CoA. The remaining two carbons from pyruvate are lost as carbon dioxide in the TCA cycle. The energy released by these oxidations is stored on high-energy electron carriers. The electron transport chain consists of a number of proteins that exist as four distinct complexes in the inner membrane of the mitochondria. This pathway takes the electrons from the high energy electron carriers and deposits them on oxygen, generating water. This releases energy, which is used to produce a high concentration of protons, or a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. ATP synthase, which is final step in energy generation, utilizes the proton gradient to synthesize ATP. This multi-protein enzyme complex also resides in the inner mitochondrial matrix. Amino Acids are largely degraded by entry into the TCA cycle, followed by electron transport, and finally ATP synthesis from the proton gradient. Fats, in the form of triglycerides, are first broken down into glycerol and fatty acids. The fatty acids are oxidized by the beta-oxidation pathway, which coverts the carbon in the fatty acid to Acetyl-CoA. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle, this is again followed by electron transport, and then ATP synthesis. The location and connections between these degradative pathways is shown below: Metabolism Overview CLICK ON THE RADIO BUTTONS to show the flow of carbon atoms, electrons, and protons through each pathway. Overview of Metabolism: The four key pathways, glycolysis, the TCA cycle, electron transport, and ATP synthesis are outlined in yellow. Glucose that is brought into the cell via the glucose transporter can suffer two fates, oxidation or storage as glycogen. Oxidation occurs in glycolysis and the TCA cycle, releasing the carbon atoms in glucose as CO2. Note that oxygen is not used until the end of the electron transport chain. High energy electrons, symbolized as orange balls are carried on organic electron carriers to the electron transport chain. As these electrons move through the four complexes, protons are pumped from the mitochondrial matrix across the inner mitochondrial membrane. As these protons flow back through the membrane via ATP synthase, ATP is generated. Many of these pathways, with minor modifications, are reversed for synthetic purposes. For example, glucose can be synthesized from pyruvate, fatty acids from acetyl-CoA, and amino acids from intermediates in the TCA cycle.   Metabolic Pathways By the end of this module, students should be able to: State the major differences between catabolic and anabolic pathways. Describe the common features of metabolic pathways. Describe a linear, branched, and circular pathway. Degradative, or catabolic, pathways generally produce energy. They usually begin with a number of different compounds, each of which represents a branch at the beginning of the pathway. These branches meet at a common intermediate, and the remaining section of the pathway is usually a linear segment. In this way a number of complex compounds are converted to a common intermediate, reducing the number of unique steps in the degradation of complex molecules. Synthetic, or anabolic, pathways generally consume energy. They usually consist of an initial linear segment, followed by branching to complex compounds at the end of the pathway. This strategy allows the use of common simple starting materials for the synthesis of a number of complex molecules. Common features of all metabolic pathways are: They contain multiple intermediates (e.g. compounds A, B, C, ....), with small molecular differences between the intermediates. Each step, or conversion between intermediates, is catalyzed by an enzyme (e.g. E1). The pathway is regulated to optimize the use of resources. It is possible to reverse the direction of a metabolic pathways, depending on the needs of the organisms; a degradative pathway can become a synthetic one. Many of the enzymes that catalyze reactions in one direction can be easily reversed, and thus function in both pathways. A small number of steps utilize different enzymes in the forward versus the reverse direction. These enzymes are regulated in a coordinated fashion such that a pathway operates in only direction at time. Pathways can be: Linear A is the substrate for the first enzyme (E1) in the pathway, B is the product of the enzyme. The final product of the pathways is compound D. Note that this pathway can be reversed, using compound D to eventually synthesize compound A. Branched An example of a branched pathway. The direction of the arrows indicate that this pathways is an anabolic, or synthetic, pathway where complex biomolecules D and F are synthesized using the simpler molecule A as starting material. In the reverse direction, the complex molecules D and F would be converted to A, releasing energy. Circular In this circular pathway, compound A is transformed to compound B by the enzyme 1. A series of transformations eventually convert B back to A, restarting the cycle.   Glycolysis Pathway Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway.   Glycolysis Pathway Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway.   Glycolysis By the end of this module, students should be able to: Define glycolysis and identify its celluar location. Explain what happens when glucose is metabolized through glycolysis. Describe how energy released by oxidation is stored. Distinguish how direct and indirect coupling are used to make glycolysis spontaneous. Describe anaerobic metabolism and how it effects glycolysis. Glycolysis is the first pathway that occurs in the metabolism of carbohydrates. This pathway occurs in the cytosol of all cells, i.e. it is a highly conserved and ubiquitous pathway. Although many different disaccharides are broken down into monosaccharides and enter the glycolysis, we will focus on how glucose is metabolized in this section. The entry points of other sugars will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. An overall summary of glycolysis is depicted below: An overview of glycolysis. The intermediates in the pathway are shown near the top of the figure, along with a summary of energy consumption and production by the pathway. The molecular structure of these compounds can be seen in the learn-by-doing exercise below. ADP and NAD+ have been omitted in this diagram for clarity. The lower part of the figure shows the change in the carbon skeleton in the pathway. The step following F-1,6-P splits the 6 carbon fructose into two three carbon compounds, both of which proceed down the pathway to form pyruvate. The key regulatory step, the enzyme phosphofructose kinase, is indicated as PFK. Key features of Glycolysis: Glucose, a six carbon hexose, is the input compound. Pyruvate, a three carbon keto-acid is the output. There is no loss of carbon in glycolysis, so two pyruvates are produced/glucose. Pyruvate is further oxidized in the TCA cycle. Two ATP molecules are produced/glucose. Note that the energy content of two ATP molecules is required to initiate the pathway. Four ATP (2/pyruvate) are produced later in the pathway. Consequently, the net yield is two ATP. Two NADH molecules are produced. A single oxidation step produces one molecule of NADH/pyruvate. The energy stored in NADH is extracted during electron transport. The key regulatory step is the addition of the second phosphate to fructose, by the enzyme phosphofructose kinase Capture of Glucose by the Cell Glucose from the outside of the cell is transported across the cell membrane by a multi-subunit protein called the glucose transporter. This enzyme catalyzes the diffusion of glucose across the membrane without the input of energy. Consequently, spontaneous flow of glucose into the cell can only occur if the concentration of glucose is lower in the cell than outside the cell. The Gibbs free energy for the transport of glucose is: G = RT ln [ glucose ] IN [ glucose ] OUT Although this expression for the Gibbs free energy appears different than previous expressions, it is really the same equation. The "product" of the reaction is glucose inside the cell and the "reactant" is glucose outside the cell. The difference in standard free energy, Go, is zero because the reactants and products are the same compound, differing only in their location. If the concentration of glucose outside the cell is higher than the concentration inside the cell, then the Gibbs free energy is negative (the ln of a number less than one is negative) and glucose will spontaneously enter the cell. If the glucose concentration in both compartments are the same, then =0 and there is no net movement of glucose across the membrane. If the concentration of glucose inside the cell exceeds the concentration outside then >0 and the reverse reaction, the net movement of glucose out of the cell, will be spontaneous. The levels of glucose in the blood vary considerably at times. We will discuss how glucose levels are regulated in the section on integrated metabolism. The focus here is to understand how the entry of glucose into the cell is spontaneous, even when the levels of glucose in the blood can drop to low values. How is it possible to maintain a negative Gibbs free energy for glucose transport into the cell, even if there are low levels of glucose outside the cell? Use the tutorial below to discover how glucose spontaneously enters the cell, even if the intracelluar concentration exceeds the concentration outside the cell. Glucose Transporter Instructions: Compare the behavior of the two simulations to see how the Hexose Kinase molecule changes the concentration of glucose inside and outside of the cell. Glucose Transporter Moving Glucose into Cell The Glucose molecules in this example are too large to freely pass through the membrane. This Glucose Transporter allows them through the specific channel through the protein. Hexose Kinase converting Glucose to Glucose-6P The Hexose Kinase molecule binds with the glucose to make glucose 6-P which is too large to return through the transporter. Glycolysis The following learn-by-doing activity allows you to investigate the chemical and energetic changes that occur in glycolysis. Once you open up the page, explore it using the embedded questions to prepare you for the self-assessment at the end of this module. As you move through the glycolysis pathway, determine which steps become spontaneous by direct coupling, which by indirect coupling, and how energy is captured from steps that release large amounts of energy. Energy Changes in Glycolysis Instructions: The left panel shows the energy changes that occur for each of the ten steps in glycolysis in the absence of coupling. The right panel shows the actual energy changes during the normal operation of glycolysis. These energy changes include contributions from both direct and indirect coupling. Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway. You may also explore this activity in a separate larger window Anaerobic Glycolysis Under anaerobic (oxygen limited) conditions, which occurs in the muscle tissue during vigorous activity, the NADH produced in glycolysis cannot be reoxidized to NAD+ by electron transport because there is insufficient oxygen to accept electrons. Under these conditions, the cell runs out of NAD+ and glycolysis will halt and the cell can no longer produce ATP. The levels of NAD+ can be restored by using pyruvate as the electron acceptor. In mammals, lactate is the product of this reaction. In yeast, it is alcohol and the process of anaerobic glycolysis is referred to as fermentation. The reduction of pyruvate will oxidize NADH to NAD+, allowing glycolysis to resume. Anaerobic metabolism. Pyruvate can serve as the electron acceptor for NADH. The reduction of pyruvate to lactate in mammals, or ethanol in yeast, regenerates the NAD+ required for glycolysis to operate. The lactate that is produced by active muscle tissue is transported to the liver. When oxygen becomes available, the lactate is reoxidized to pyruvate and it can then be used for the synthesis of glucose. The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. Glycolysis is the first pathway that occurs in the metabolism of carbohydrates. This pathway occurs in the cytosol of all cells, i.e. it is a highly conserved and ubiquitous pathway. Although many different disaccharides are broken down into monosaccharides and enter the glycolysis, we will focus on how glucose is metabolized in this section. The entry points of other sugars will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. An overall summary of glycolysis is depicted below: An overview of glycolysis. The intermediates in the pathway are shown near the top of the figure, along with a summary of energy consumption and production by the pathway. The molecular structure of these compounds can be seen in the learn-by-doing exercise below. ADP and NAD+ have been omitted in this diagram for clarity. The lower part of the figure shows the change in the carbon skeleton in the pathway. The step following F-1,6-P splits the 6 carbon fructose into two three carbon compounds, both of which proceed down the pathway to form pyruvate. The key regulatory step, the enzyme phosphofructose kinase, is indicated as PFK. Key features of Glycolysis: Glucose, a six carbon hexose, is the input compound. Pyruvate, a three carbon keto-acid is the output. There is no loss of carbon in glycolysis, so two pyruvates are produced/glucose. Pyruvate is further oxidized in the TCA cycle. Two ATP molecules are produced/glucose. Note that the energy content of two ATP molecules is required to initiate the pathway. Four ATP (2/pyruvate) are produced later in the pathway. Consequently, the net yield is two ATP. Two NADH molecules are produced. A single oxidation step produces one molecule of NADH/pyruvate. The energy stored in NADH is extracted during electron transport. The key regulatory step is the addition of the second phosphate to fructose, by the enzyme phosphofructose kinase Glucose from the outside of the cell is transported across the cell membrane by a multi-subunit protein called the glucose transporter. This enzyme catalyzes the diffusion of glucose across the membrane without the input of energy. Consequently, spontaneous flow of glucose into the cell can only occur if the concentration of glucose is lower in the cell than outside the cell. The Gibbs free energy for the transport of glucose is: G = RT ln [ glucose ] IN [ glucose ] OUT Although this expression for the Gibbs free energy appears different than previous expressions, it is really the same equation. The "product" of the reaction is glucose inside the cell and the "reactant" is glucose outside the cell. The difference in standard free energy, Go, is zero because the reactants and products are the same compound, differing only in their location. If the concentration of glucose outside the cell is higher than the concentration inside the cell, then the Gibbs free energy is negative (the ln of a number less than one is negative) and glucose will spontaneously enter the cell. If the glucose concentration in both compartments are the same, then =0 and there is no net movement of glucose across the membrane. If the concentration of glucose inside the cell exceeds the concentration outside then >0 and the reverse reaction, the net movement of glucose out of the cell, will be spontaneous. The levels of glucose in the blood vary considerably at times. We will discuss how glucose levels are regulated in the section on integrated metabolism. The focus here is to understand how the entry of glucose into the cell is spontaneous, even when the levels of glucose in the blood can drop to low values. How is it possible to maintain a negative Gibbs free energy for glucose transport into the cell, even if there are low levels of glucose outside the cell? Use the tutorial below to discover how glucose spontaneously enters the cell, even if the intracelluar concentration exceeds the concentration outside the cell. Glucose Transporter Instructions: Compare the behavior of the two simulations to see how the Hexose Kinase molecule changes the concentration of glucose inside and outside of the cell. Glucose Transporter Moving Glucose into Cell The Glucose molecules in this example are too large to freely pass through the membrane. This Glucose Transporter allows them through the specific channel through the protein. Hexose Kinase converting Glucose to Glucose-6P The Hexose Kinase molecule binds with the glucose to make glucose 6-P which is too large to return through the transporter. The following learn-by-doing activity allows you to investigate the chemical and energetic changes that occur in glycolysis. Once you open up the page, explore it using the embedded questions to prepare you for the self-assessment at the end of this module. As you move through the glycolysis pathway, determine which steps become spontaneous by direct coupling, which by indirect coupling, and how energy is captured from steps that release large amounts of energy. Energy Changes in Glycolysis Instructions: The left panel shows the energy changes that occur for each of the ten steps in glycolysis in the absence of coupling. The right panel shows the actual energy changes during the normal operation of glycolysis. These energy changes include contributions from both direct and indirect coupling. Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway. You may also explore this activity in a separate larger window Under anaerobic (oxygen limited) conditions, which occurs in the muscle tissue during vigorous activity, the NADH produced in glycolysis cannot be reoxidized to NAD+ by electron transport because there is insufficient oxygen to accept electrons. Under these conditions, the cell runs out of NAD+ and glycolysis will halt and the cell can no longer produce ATP. The levels of NAD+ can be restored by using pyruvate as the electron acceptor. In mammals, lactate is the product of this reaction. In yeast, it is alcohol and the process of anaerobic glycolysis is referred to as fermentation. The reduction of pyruvate will oxidize NADH to NAD+, allowing glycolysis to resume. Anaerobic metabolism. Pyruvate can serve as the electron acceptor for NADH. The reduction of pyruvate to lactate in mammals, or ethanol in yeast, regenerates the NAD+ required for glycolysis to operate. The lactate that is produced by active muscle tissue is transported to the liver. When oxygen becomes available, the lactate is reoxidized to pyruvate and it can then be used for the synthesis of glucose.   Glycolysis By the end of this module, students should be able to: Define glycolysis and identify its celluar location. Explain what happens when glucose is metabolized through glycolysis. Describe how energy released by oxidation is stored. Distinguish how direct and indirect coupling are used to make glycolysis spontaneous. Describe anaerobic metabolism and how it effects glycolysis. Glycolysis is the first pathway that occurs in the metabolism of carbohydrates. This pathway occurs in the cytosol of all cells, i.e. it is a highly conserved and ubiquitous pathway. Although many different disaccharides are broken down into monosaccharides and enter the glycolysis, we will focus on how glucose is metabolized in this section. The entry points of other sugars will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. An overall summary of glycolysis is depicted below: An overview of glycolysis. The intermediates in the pathway are shown near the top of the figure, along with a summary of energy consumption and production by the pathway. The molecular structure of these compounds can be seen in the learn-by-doing exercise below. ADP and NAD+ have been omitted in this diagram for clarity. The lower part of the figure shows the change in the carbon skeleton in the pathway. The step following F-1,6-P splits the 6 carbon fructose into two three carbon compounds, both of which proceed down the pathway to form pyruvate. The key regulatory step, the enzyme phosphofructose kinase, is indicated as PFK. Key features of Glycolysis: Glucose, a six carbon hexose, is the input compound. Pyruvate, a three carbon keto-acid is the output. There is no loss of carbon in glycolysis, so two pyruvates are produced/glucose. Pyruvate is further oxidized in the TCA cycle. Two ATP molecules are produced/glucose. Note that the energy content of two ATP molecules is required to initiate the pathway. Four ATP (2/pyruvate) are produced later in the pathway. Consequently, the net yield is two ATP. Two NADH molecules are produced. A single oxidation step produces one molecule of NADH/pyruvate. The energy stored in NADH is extracted during electron transport. The key regulatory step is the addition of the second phosphate to fructose, by the enzyme phosphofructose kinase Capture of Glucose by the Cell Glucose from the outside of the cell is transported across the cell membrane by a multi-subunit protein called the glucose transporter. This enzyme catalyzes the diffusion of glucose across the membrane without the input of energy. Consequently, spontaneous flow of glucose into the cell can only occur if the concentration of glucose is lower in the cell than outside the cell. The Gibbs free energy for the transport of glucose is: G = RT ln [ glucose ] IN [ glucose ] OUT Although this expression for the Gibbs free energy appears different than previous expressions, it is really the same equation. The "product" of the reaction is glucose inside the cell and the "reactant" is glucose outside the cell. The difference in standard free energy, Go, is zero because the reactants and products are the same compound, differing only in their location. If the concentration of glucose outside the cell is higher than the concentration inside the cell, then the Gibbs free energy is negative (the ln of a number less than one is negative) and glucose will spontaneously enter the cell. If the glucose concentration in both compartments are the same, then =0 and there is no net movement of glucose across the membrane. If the concentration of glucose inside the cell exceeds the concentration outside then >0 and the reverse reaction, the net movement of glucose out of the cell, will be spontaneous. The levels of glucose in the blood vary considerably at times. We will discuss how glucose levels are regulated in the section on integrated metabolism. The focus here is to understand how the entry of glucose into the cell is spontaneous, even when the levels of glucose in the blood can drop to low values. How is it possible to maintain a negative Gibbs free energy for glucose transport into the cell, even if there are low levels of glucose outside the cell? Use the tutorial below to discover how glucose spontaneously enters the cell, even if the intracelluar concentration exceeds the concentration outside the cell. Glucose Transporter Instructions: Compare the behavior of the two simulations to see how the Hexose Kinase molecule changes the concentration of glucose inside and outside of the cell. Glucose Transporter Moving Glucose into Cell The Glucose molecules in this example are too large to freely pass through the membrane. This Glucose Transporter allows them through the specific channel through the protein. Hexose Kinase converting Glucose to Glucose-6P The Hexose Kinase molecule binds with the glucose to make glucose 6-P which is too large to return through the transporter. Glycolysis The following learn-by-doing activity allows you to investigate the chemical and energetic changes that occur in glycolysis. Once you open up the page, explore it using the embedded questions to prepare you for the self-assessment at the end of this module. As you move through the glycolysis pathway, determine which steps become spontaneous by direct coupling, which by indirect coupling, and how energy is captured from steps that release large amounts of energy. Energy Changes in Glycolysis Instructions: The left panel shows the energy changes that occur for each of the ten steps in glycolysis in the absence of coupling. The right panel shows the actual energy changes during the normal operation of glycolysis. These energy changes include contributions from both direct and indirect coupling. Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway. You may also explore this activity in a separate larger window Anaerobic Glycolysis Under anaerobic (oxygen limited) conditions, which occurs in the muscle tissue during vigorous activity, the NADH produced in glycolysis cannot be reoxidized to NAD+ by electron transport because there is insufficient oxygen to accept electrons. Under these conditions, the cell runs out of NAD+ and glycolysis will halt and the cell can no longer produce ATP. The levels of NAD+ can be restored by using pyruvate as the electron acceptor. In mammals, lactate is the product of this reaction. In yeast, it is alcohol and the process of anaerobic glycolysis is referred to as fermentation. The reduction of pyruvate will oxidize NADH to NAD+, allowing glycolysis to resume. Anaerobic metabolism. Pyruvate can serve as the electron acceptor for NADH. The reduction of pyruvate to lactate in mammals, or ethanol in yeast, regenerates the NAD+ required for glycolysis to operate. The lactate that is produced by active muscle tissue is transported to the liver. When oxygen becomes available, the lactate is reoxidized to pyruvate and it can then be used for the synthesis of glucose. Glycolysis is the first pathway that occurs in the metabolism of carbohydrates. This pathway occurs in the cytosol of all cells, i.e. it is a highly conserved and ubiquitous pathway. Although many different disaccharides are broken down into monosaccharides and enter the glycolysis, we will focus on how glucose is metabolized in this section. The entry points of other sugars will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. An overall summary of glycolysis is depicted below: An overview of glycolysis. The intermediates in the pathway are shown near the top of the figure, along with a summary of energy consumption and production by the pathway. The molecular structure of these compounds can be seen in the learn-by-doing exercise below. ADP and NAD+ have been omitted in this diagram for clarity. The lower part of the figure shows the change in the carbon skeleton in the pathway. The step following F-1,6-P splits the 6 carbon fructose into two three carbon compounds, both of which proceed down the pathway to form pyruvate. The key regulatory step, the enzyme phosphofructose kinase, is indicated as PFK. Key features of Glycolysis: Glucose, a six carbon hexose, is the input compound. Pyruvate, a three carbon keto-acid is the output. There is no loss of carbon in glycolysis, so two pyruvates are produced/glucose. Pyruvate is further oxidized in the TCA cycle. Two ATP molecules are produced/glucose. Note that the energy content of two ATP molecules is required to initiate the pathway. Four ATP (2/pyruvate) are produced later in the pathway. Consequently, the net yield is two ATP. Two NADH molecules are produced. A single oxidation step produces one molecule of NADH/pyruvate. The energy stored in NADH is extracted during electron transport. The key regulatory step is the addition of the second phosphate to fructose, by the enzyme phosphofructose kinase Glucose from the outside of the cell is transported across the cell membrane by a multi-subunit protein called the glucose transporter. This enzyme catalyzes the diffusion of glucose across the membrane without the input of energy. Consequently, spontaneous flow of glucose into the cell can only occur if the concentration of glucose is lower in the cell than outside the cell. The Gibbs free energy for the transport of glucose is: G = RT ln [ glucose ] IN [ glucose ] OUT Although this expression for the Gibbs free energy appears different than previous expressions, it is really the same equation. The "product" of the reaction is glucose inside the cell and the "reactant" is glucose outside the cell. The difference in standard free energy, Go, is zero because the reactants and products are the same compound, differing only in their location. If the concentration of glucose outside the cell is higher than the concentration inside the cell, then the Gibbs free energy is negative (the ln of a number less than one is negative) and glucose will spontaneously enter the cell. If the glucose concentration in both compartments are the same, then =0 and there is no net movement of glucose across the membrane. If the concentration of glucose inside the cell exceeds the concentration outside then >0 and the reverse reaction, the net movement of glucose out of the cell, will be spontaneous. The levels of glucose in the blood vary considerably at times. We will discuss how glucose levels are regulated in the section on integrated metabolism. The focus here is to understand how the entry of glucose into the cell is spontaneous, even when the levels of glucose in the blood can drop to low values. How is it possible to maintain a negative Gibbs free energy for glucose transport into the cell, even if there are low levels of glucose outside the cell? Use the tutorial below to discover how glucose spontaneously enters the cell, even if the intracelluar concentration exceeds the concentration outside the cell. Glucose Transporter Instructions: Compare the behavior of the two simulations to see how the Hexose Kinase molecule changes the concentration of glucose inside and outside of the cell. Glucose Transporter Moving Glucose into Cell The Glucose molecules in this example are too large to freely pass through the membrane. This Glucose Transporter allows them through the specific channel through the protein. Hexose Kinase converting Glucose to Glucose-6P The Hexose Kinase molecule binds with the glucose to make glucose 6-P which is too large to return through the transporter. The following learn-by-doing activity allows you to investigate the chemical and energetic changes that occur in glycolysis. Once you open up the page, explore it using the embedded questions to prepare you for the self-assessment at the end of this module. As you move through the glycolysis pathway, determine which steps become spontaneous by direct coupling, which by indirect coupling, and how energy is captured from steps that release large amounts of energy. Energy Changes in Glycolysis Instructions: The left panel shows the energy changes that occur for each of the ten steps in glycolysis in the absence of coupling. The right panel shows the actual energy changes during the normal operation of glycolysis. These energy changes include contributions from both direct and indirect coupling. Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway. You may also explore this activity in a separate larger window Under anaerobic (oxygen limited) conditions, which occurs in the muscle tissue during vigorous activity, the NADH produced in glycolysis cannot be reoxidized to NAD+ by electron transport because there is insufficient oxygen to accept electrons. Under these conditions, the cell runs out of NAD+ and glycolysis will halt and the cell can no longer produce ATP. The levels of NAD+ can be restored by using pyruvate as the electron acceptor. In mammals, lactate is the product of this reaction. In yeast, it is alcohol and the process of anaerobic glycolysis is referred to as fermentation. The reduction of pyruvate will oxidize NADH to NAD+, allowing glycolysis to resume. Anaerobic metabolism. Pyruvate can serve as the electron acceptor for NADH. The reduction of pyruvate to lactate in mammals, or ethanol in yeast, regenerates the NAD+ required for glycolysis to operate. The lactate that is produced by active muscle tissue is transported to the liver. When oxygen becomes available, the lactate is reoxidized to pyruvate and it can then be used for the synthesis of glucose.   TCA Cycle Catabolic Process of the TCA Cycle The tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, also known as the Krebs cycle or the citric acid cycle, is a central pathway in the metabolism of all organisms. Not only is this pathway the next step for the oxidation of glucose and fatty acids, it also plays a key role in amino acid metabolism. All carbons that enter the TCA cycle, regardless of their source, are fully oxidized to carbon dioxide. The electrons that are released from these oxidations are stored on NADH and FADH2 for subsequent processing by the electron transport chain. Entry of carbohydrates into the TCA cycle occurs by the transport of pyruvate from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial matrix. There, the pyruvate undergoes a process called oxidative decarboxylation to produce a key intermediate in metabolism, acetyl-CoA, which enters the TCA cycle. Entry of fatty acids into the TCA occurs directly into acetyl-CoA. During the process of fatty acid oxidation (beta-oxidation) which also occurs in the mitochondrial matrix, two-carbon fragments are progressively released from fatty acids and incorporated into acetyl-CoA. Entry of carbohydrates and fats into the TCA cycle. Oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate produces acetyl-CoA, releasing one CO2 and NADH. Fatty acid oxidation yields acetyl-CoA directly. Acetyl-CoA is a high-energy thioester that enters the citric acid cycle. The first step of the TCA cycle utilizes the high-energy thioester in acetyl-CoA to drive the addition of an acetate group to oxaloacetic acid to produce citrate. In the first step of the TCA cycle acetyl-CoA donates an acetate group to oxaloacetate, forming citrate. Note that the ketone group on oxalacetate has become an alcohol in citrate. The remaining steps in the TCA cycle convert citrate back to oxaloacetate. This process produces: 2 CO2, from oxidative decarboxylations. 3 NADH, all from oxidation of alcohols to ketones. 1 FADH2, from the oxidation of an alkane to an alkene 1 GTP, from the hydrolysis of a thio-ester. Given the above information, your task is to deduce the series of reactions that convert citrate back to oxaloacetate using the following learn-by-doing activity. Anabolic Role of the TCA Cycle. Intermediates of the TCA cycle are utilized in the following synthetic pathways: Fatty acids and steroids from acetyl-CoA. Amino acids aspartate, asparagine, lysine, isoleucine, methionine from oxaloacetate. Amino acids glutamate, glutamine, proline, arginine from alpha-ketoglutaric acid Porphyrin, a precursor to heme, from Succinyl-CoA What major metabolite is missing from this list? Carbohydrates! It is not possible for mammals to use carbon atoms derived from the TCA cycle to synthesize glucose. How glucose is synthesized from pyruvate will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. If compounds in the TCA cycle are used to synthesize other compounds, such as amino acids, the TCA cycle will eventually halt due to depletion of oxaloacetate. Consequently it is necessary to "fill up" the TCA cycle with an "anaplerotic" reaction. In this case, pyruvate is converted to oxaloacetate by the enzyme pyruvate carboxylase: Anaplerotic reaction that generates oxaloacetate from pyruvate. This reaction replenishes the carbons in the TCA cycle, allowing it to continue to operate under anabolic conditions. The tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, also known as the Krebs cycle or the citric acid cycle, is a central pathway in the metabolism of all organisms. Not only is this pathway the next step for the oxidation of glucose and fatty acids, it also plays a key role in amino acid metabolism. All carbons that enter the TCA cycle, regardless of their source, are fully oxidized to carbon dioxide. The electrons that are released from these oxidations are stored on NADH and FADH2 for subsequent processing by the electron transport chain. Entry of carbohydrates into the TCA cycle occurs by the transport of pyruvate from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial matrix. There, the pyruvate undergoes a process called oxidative decarboxylation to produce a key intermediate in metabolism, acetyl-CoA, which enters the TCA cycle. Entry of fatty acids into the TCA occurs directly into acetyl-CoA. During the process of fatty acid oxidation (beta-oxidation) which also occurs in the mitochondrial matrix, two-carbon fragments are progressively released from fatty acids and incorporated into acetyl-CoA. Entry of carbohydrates and fats into the TCA cycle. Oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate produces acetyl-CoA, releasing one CO2 and NADH. Fatty acid oxidation yields acetyl-CoA directly. Acetyl-CoA is a high-energy thioester that enters the citric acid cycle. The first step of the TCA cycle utilizes the high-energy thioester in acetyl-CoA to drive the addition of an acetate group to oxaloacetic acid to produce citrate. In the first step of the TCA cycle acetyl-CoA donates an acetate group to oxaloacetate, forming citrate. Note that the ketone group on oxalacetate has become an alcohol in citrate. The remaining steps in the TCA cycle convert citrate back to oxaloacetate. This process produces: 2 CO2, from oxidative decarboxylations. 3 NADH, all from oxidation of alcohols to ketones. 1 FADH2, from the oxidation of an alkane to an alkene 1 GTP, from the hydrolysis of a thio-ester. Given the above information, your task is to deduce the series of reactions that convert citrate back to oxaloacetate using the following learn-by-doing activity. Intermediates of the TCA cycle are utilized in the following synthetic pathways: Fatty acids and steroids from acetyl-CoA. Amino acids aspartate, asparagine, lysine, isoleucine, methionine from oxaloacetate. Amino acids glutamate, glutamine, proline, arginine from alpha-ketoglutaric acid Porphyrin, a precursor to heme, from Succinyl-CoA What major metabolite is missing from this list? Carbohydrates! It is not possible for mammals to use carbon atoms derived from the TCA cycle to synthesize glucose. How glucose is synthesized from pyruvate will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. If compounds in the TCA cycle are used to synthesize other compounds, such as amino acids, the TCA cycle will eventually halt due to depletion of oxaloacetate. Consequently it is necessary to "fill up" the TCA cycle with an "anaplerotic" reaction. In this case, pyruvate is converted to oxaloacetate by the enzyme pyruvate carboxylase: Anaplerotic reaction that generates oxaloacetate from pyruvate. This reaction replenishes the carbons in the TCA cycle, allowing it to continue to operate under anabolic conditions.   Hormonal Control of Glucose Levels By the end of this module, students will be able to: Explain the physiological role of the hormones epinephrine, glucagon, and insulin. Describe receptor mediated signal transduction and explain the role of G-proteins and adenyl cyclase. Explain the role of the protein kinases and phosphatases in regulating the enzyme function. The storage and metabolism of glucose is controlled at the organ level by hormones. The hormones glucagon and insulin are secreted by the pancreas during periods of low or high blood sugar, respectively. Glucagon causes the liver to produce glucose from the storage polysaccharide glycogen or to synthesize glucose from pyruvate using the pathway gluconeogenesis. The released glucose enters into the blood and travels to muscle for oxidation by glycolysis leading to energy production. In contrast, insulin instructs the liver cell to store the excess glucose in the blood. The hormone epinephrine,which is produced by the central nervous system in response to dangerous situations, evokes the same response as glucagon, the release of glucose from the liver. Hormonal control of glucose metabolism. Glucagon and insulin are pancreatic hormones that regulate blood sugar levels. Epinephrine (adrenaline) is produced by the adrenal gland in the central nervous system in response to dangerous situations. Glucagon and epinephrine instruct the liver cell to produce glucose by release from glycogen or by synthesis from pyruvate via the synthetic pathway gluconeogenesis. The glucose enters the blood and is oxidized in muscle cells to produce energy. Insulin is secreted when the blood glucose level is high, instructing the liver to store glucose in glycogen or, if necessary, to oxidize it to produce energy. These hormones do not directly affect the enzymes involved in glucose metabolism and storage. Rather they bind to membrane receptors on the surface of the cell and evoke a conformational, or allosteric, change in the receptor, transmitting the signal to the inside of the cell. The signalling pathway that is activated by the hormones glucagon and epinephrine begins with the activation of a G-protein by exchange of bound GDP for GTP. The G-protein then activates adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that converts ATP to cAMP (cyclic AMP). The cAMP then activates a protein kinase, leading to the phosphorylation of a number of enzymes in the cell. The binding of Insulin to its receptor also causes a conformational change in the receptor. Subsequent signalling steps do not involve G-proteins and they ultimately lead to the activation of a protein phosphatase, causing the dephosphoryation of enzymes in the cell. Transmitting the Signal to the Inside of the Cell The hormones glucagon, epinephrine, and insulin all bind reversible to receptors on the cell surface. The binding of glucagon and epinephrine ultimately lead to protein phosphorylation by the activation of protein kinases while the binding of insulin ultimately leads to activation of protein phosphatases which remove the phosphate groups from enzymes. Click the green arrow to play the animation. The phosphorylation of enzymes during periods of glucose demand or the dephosphorylation of enzymes when there is surplus glucose results in the correct biological response of the liver cell. Phosphorylation results in the activation of enzymes that cause the release of glucose from glycogen and also results in the synthesis of new glucose by the anabolic pathway gluconeogenesis. Dephosphorylation of enzymes causes the activation of enzymes involved in the storage of glucose in glycogen and can also result in the activation of glucose oxidation for ATP production. Since the protein kinases and phosphatases that are involved in the activation of enzymes are enzymes themselves, amplification of the initial hormone-receptor signal occurs. This is especially true in the case of the hormones glucagon and epinephrine where additional amplification occurs due to the production of a large number of cAMP molecules per signalling event.   Glycogen By the end of this module, students should be able to: Recognize the structure of glycogen. Explain how glycogen degradation by glycogen phosphorylase is controlled by protein phosphorylation. Describe indirect coupling in glycogen synthesis and how glycogen synthase is controlled by protein phosphorylation. Glycogen is a polysaccharide that is used to store glucose in both liver and muscle cells. In plants, amylopectin serves the same role. Glycogen consists of glucose residues linked together in a linear chain with -(1-4) linkages. Multiple chains are joined together by the formation of -(1-6) linkages, giving rise to a highly branched polymer. The principle reason for the storage of glucose as glycogen is to reduce the osmotic effects that would otherwise occur from the high concentration of glucose in cells. Glycogen. The overall structure of a small glycogen molecule is shown on the left. An enlarged portion of the molecule is shown on the right. When needed, glucose is released from glycogen by a reaction catalyzed by the enzyme glycogen phosphorylase. This enzyme breaks an -(1-4) linkage at the end of glycogen polymer by the addition of an inorganic phosphate. The product of this reaction, glucose-1-P, can enter glycolysis after conversion to glucose-6-P. Note that this entry point for glucose skips the first step in glycolysis, avoiding the need to activate glucose using ATP. Glycogen degradation occurs by the cleavage of an -(1-4) linkage with inorganic phosphate, catalyzed by the enzyme glycogen phosphorylase. This is reaction occurs spontaneously, no external energy is required. For storage, glucose is added to the free 4-hydroxyl groups of the glycogen molecule, elongating the linear chains. Since the release of glucose by phosphorolysis is spontaneous, the direct addition of glucose to glycogen must be energetically unfavorable. Consequently, the synthetic reaction requires coupling to an energy releasing reaction to become spontaneous. The addition of glucose to glycogen proceeds in two steps. First, glucose-1-phosphate reacts with UTP to produces a high energy intermediate, UDP-glucose, which in turn is used by the enzyme glycogen synthase to add glucose to glycogen. Glycogen synthesis. The incorporation of glucose into glycogen requires two steps. In the first (I) activation of glucose occurs using the energy from UTP to form UDP-glucose. Remarkably, the formation of UDP-glucose occurs with a free energy change of nearly zero. The overall Gibbs free energy of the reaction becomes negative due to the energy released when pyrophosphate is hydrolyzed to inorganic phosphate. In step II, the high energy compound UDP-glucose is used to spontaneously add glucose to glycogen. The net energy cost of adding a glucose to glycogen is two ATPs, one to form glucose-1-phosphate and one to form UTP from UDP. Since glucose is released from glycogen in a phosphorylated state, glucose-1-phosphate, the net cost to store glucose in glycogen is one ATP/glucose. Regulation of Glycogen Synthesis and Degradation: Glycogen synthesis and degradation is controlled by the phosophorylation state of the enzymes. The phosphorylation levels of proteins within the cell are directly controlled by response to hormones, as discussed above. When there is demand from glucose protein phosphorylation occurs, signalling the release of glucose from glycogen in the liver. Therefore the phosphorylated state of glycogen phosphorylase must be the active form of the enzyme so that glucose is released from glycogen. To insure that both synthetic and degradative pathways are not active at the same time we would expect that the phosphorylated state of glycogen synthase must be inactive. During periods of high blood sugar levels, hormonal signalling causes the storage of glucose in glycogen by leading to dephosphorylation of enzymes in the cell. This dephosphorylation activates glycogen synthase and inactivates glycogen phosphorylase, again insuring that only one direction is active at a time. Glycogen regulation by phosphorylation of enzymes. Glycogen phosphorylase is active when phosphorylated. In contrast, the phosphorylation of glycogen synthase inactivates the enzyme. Dephosphorylation leads to a reversal in the regulation; inactivation of glycogen phosphorylase and activation of glycogen synthase.   Gluconeogenesis By the end of this module, students should be able to: Explain how glucose can be synthesized from pyruvate. Specify the number of steps in glycolysis with Gibbs free energies that are close to zero and can be reversed in gluconeogenesis. Indicate the number of steps in glycolysis that are too energetically unfavorable to reverse in gluconeogenesis and describe how the steps are reversed. Identify the role of phosphofructose kinase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase in gluconeogenesis pathways. Glucose Synthesis - Gluconeogenesis During glycolysis glucose is oxidized to pyruvate. The reverse reaction, the synthesis of glucose from pyruvate occurs in the gluconeogenesis pathway. The major source of pyruvate in the liver is lactate that was produced by active muscle during anaerobic metabolism. Since the process of converting glucose to pyruvate via glycolysis is energy releasing, the reverse reaction must require energy. Most of the steps in the gluconeogenesis pathway have a Gibbs free energy of nearly zero, and are easily reversed by slight changes in the concentrations of products and reactions. However, there are three steps in glycolysis that occur with such a large decrease in energy that they cannot become spontaneous in the reverse direction. These steps are: The formation of glucose-6-P from glucose, coupled to ATP hydrolysis. The formation of fructose-1-6-P from fructose-6-P, coupled to ATP hydrolysis. The formation of pyruvate from phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), releasing sufficient energy to produce ATP. Since the first two reactions use ATP to drive an otherwise unfavorable reaction, the phosphorylation of sugars, the simpler reverse reaction, hydrolysis, will be favorable and spontaneous. Consequently, in gluconeogenesis these two steps are catalyzed by phosphatases instead of kinases. The third reaction in glycolysis, phosphoenol pyruvate (PEP) to pyruvate, has such a large decrease in energy that it cannot be easily reversed and must be accomplished by a different method. In gluconeogenesis the conversion of pyruvate to PEP in gluconeogenesis occurs by in two steps: The enzyme pyruvate carboxylase catalyzes: pyruvate + HCO3- + ATP  oxaloacetate + ADP + Pi The enzyme PEP carboxykinase catalyzes: oxaloacetate + GTP  phosphoenolpyruvate + GDP + CO2. Therefore a total of two "high energy" phosphate bonds (ATP/GTP  ADP/GDP +Pi) are required to reverse this step. The complete pathways for glucolysis and gluconeogenesis are shown below: Glycolysis and Gluconeogenesis. The left part of the figure shows glycolysis, the right side shows gluconeogenesis. Enzymatic steps that are accomplished by different mechanisms (and enzymes) in each pathway are highlighted in yellow. The hydrolysis of phosphate from fructose 1,6-P and glucose-6-P is spontaneous, consequently the kinases used in glycolysis are replaced by phosphatases in gluconeogenesis. The conversion of pyruvate to PEP follows a completely different route in gluconeogenesis than in glycolysis. The enzymes whose names are colored red, phosphofructose kinase (PFK) and fructose 1,6 bisphosphatase, catalyze important regulated steps in each pathway. During glycolysis glucose is oxidized to pyruvate. The reverse reaction, the synthesis of glucose from pyruvate occurs in the gluconeogenesis pathway. The major source of pyruvate in the liver is lactate that was produced by active muscle during anaerobic metabolism. Since the process of converting glucose to pyruvate via glycolysis is energy releasing, the reverse reaction must require energy. Most of the steps in the gluconeogenesis pathway have a Gibbs free energy of nearly zero, and are easily reversed by slight changes in the concentrations of products and reactions. However, there are three steps in glycolysis that occur with such a large decrease in energy that they cannot become spontaneous in the reverse direction. These steps are: The formation of glucose-6-P from glucose, coupled to ATP hydrolysis. The formation of fructose-1-6-P from fructose-6-P, coupled to ATP hydrolysis. The formation of pyruvate from phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), releasing sufficient energy to produce ATP. Since the first two reactions use ATP to drive an otherwise unfavorable reaction, the phosphorylation of sugars, the simpler reverse reaction, hydrolysis, will be favorable and spontaneous. Consequently, in gluconeogenesis these two steps are catalyzed by phosphatases instead of kinases. The third reaction in glycolysis, phosphoenol pyruvate (PEP) to pyruvate, has such a large decrease in energy that it cannot be easily reversed and must be accomplished by a different method. In gluconeogenesis the conversion of pyruvate to PEP in gluconeogenesis occurs by in two steps: The enzyme pyruvate carboxylase catalyzes: pyruvate + HCO3- + ATP  oxaloacetate + ADP + Pi The enzyme PEP carboxykinase catalyzes: oxaloacetate + GTP  phosphoenolpyruvate + GDP + CO2. Therefore a total of two "high energy" phosphate bonds (ATP/GTP  ADP/GDP +Pi) are required to reverse this step. The complete pathways for glucolysis and gluconeogenesis are shown below: Glycolysis and Gluconeogenesis. The left part of the figure shows glycolysis, the right side shows gluconeogenesis. Enzymatic steps that are accomplished by different mechanisms (and enzymes) in each pathway are highlighted in yellow. The hydrolysis of phosphate from fructose 1,6-P and glucose-6-P is spontaneous, consequently the kinases used in glycolysis are replaced by phosphatases in gluconeogenesis. The conversion of pyruvate to PEP follows a completely different route in gluconeogenesis than in glycolysis. The enzymes whose names are colored red, phosphofructose kinase (PFK) and fructose 1,6 bisphosphatase, catalyze important regulated steps in each pathway.   Regulation of Glucose Synthesis and Degradation By the end of this module, students should be able to: Describe how glycolysis and gluconeogenesis are coordinately regulated by sensing energy levels in the cell. Explain how hormone controlled phosphorylation of enzymes affect fructose 2,6 phosphate (F-26-P) levels. Summarize how fructose 2,6, phosphate levels regulate glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. Express how glycogen and glucose metabolism in the liver effects the glucose demand of the organism and the liver cell. Glycolysis and gluconeogenesis are regulated at two levels. First, at the cellular level, the regulatory enzymes are sensitive to the energy levels of the cell. Second, at the organ level, the enzymes are regulated by hormones. However, unlike glycogen metabolism, this regulation is not via protein phosphorylation but by changes in levels of the allosteric regulatory compound fructose 2,6 bisphosphate (F26P). The levels of F26P are indirectly regulated by hormones by virtue of the fact that the activity of the enzymes that make and degrade F26P are a affected by protein phosphorylation. Regulation by Energy Sensing. Cells have a relatively constant amount of adenosine nucleotides, i.e. the sum of the concentrations of AMP, ADP, and ATP are relatively constant. When the cell is consuming energy, ATP is being hydrolyzed to ADP or to AMP. Consequently, high levels of AMP and ADP indicate that the cell needs to activate glycolysis to restore the levels of ATP. If ATP levels are high, then glycolysis should be turned off. The excess ATP can be used to synthesize glucose and other molecules if needed. Cellular energy levels are high when ATP or NADH levels are high. Cellular activities convert ATP to ADP and AMP. ATP levels can be replenished by oxidation of NADH by electron transport and ATP synthesis. When both NADH and ATP levels are low, the cell has low energy reserves. The enzymes phosphofructose kinase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase are under allosteric control by adenosine nucleotides: High ATP Inhibits PFK - therefore glycolysis is off Activates fructose bisphosphatase - therefore gluconeogenesis can occur HIgh AMP (low ATP) Activates PFK - glycolysis is turned on to regenerate ATP Inhibits fructose bis phosphatase - therefore gluconeogenesis is turned off. Note that these two enzymes are regulated in a coordinated manner such that only one pathway, glycolysis or gluconeogenesis, is turned on at one time. Regulation by Hormonal Control. The compound fructose -2,6 bisphosphate (F26P) is an allosteric activator of PFK. F26P also inhibits fructose bisphosphatase, the key regulatory enzyme in gluconeogenesis. The levels of F26P are controlled by hormones via protein phosphorylation levels. When protein phosphorylation levels are high, F26P is degraded, when phosphorylation levels are low, F26P is synthesized. Regulation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate (F26P) levels by hormones. Glucagon and epinephrine cause phosphorylation of enzymes. The enzyme that degrades (F26P) is activated when phosphorylated, consequently F26P levels drop when either of these hormones are present. The reverse occurs when insulin is present, the kinase becomes activated and F26P levels rise. Note that F26P is generated from fructose-6-phosphate (F6P), which is also an intermediate in glycolysis. Since the enzyme that synthesizes F26P has the same function as PFK in glycolysis, adding a phosphate to fructose-6-P, it is called PFK-2. The regulation of glycolysis and gluconeogenesis by energy sensing and indirect hormonal control is summarize below. Regulation of PFK in glycolysis and fructose 1,6 phosphatase in gluconeogenesis by energy sensing and fructose-2,6-bisphosphate levels. Note that when one pathway is activated, the other is inhibited. The coordinated regulation of glycolysis and gluconeogenesis dovetails perfectly with the direct hormonal control of glycogen metabolism to insure the liver cell responds appropriately to hormonal signals, i.e. the production and release of glucose when glucagon or epinephrine are present, or the storage and, if required, the oxidation of glucose when insulin is present. The left panel shows the steps that occur when there is a demand for glucose from the liver, as signaled by the hormones glucagon or epinephrine. The end result is release of glucose from glycogen and the activation of gluconeogenesis if there are sufficient ATP reserves. The right panel shows the steps that occur when the liver (and muscle) are to store excess glucose, as signaled by the hormone insulin. The end result is the synthesis of glycogen and, if the cell requires energy (ATP), the activation of glycolysis.   Obesity By the end of this module, students should be able to: Specify how fats (triglycerides) are metabolized by fatty acid oxidation. Describe how select amino acids enter the oxidative pathways. Explain how the disaccharides sucrose and lactose enter glycolysis. Tell how carbons atoms from the excess consumption of any dietary source can be incorporated into fats. Obesity and the Metabolism of Fats, Amino acids, and Complex Sugars Fats are stored in cells as triglycerides, the condensation product of three fatty acids with the three carbon polyalcohol glycerol. Hormonal stimulation by glucagon or epinephrine activates lipases which release the fatty acids from the glycerol. The fatty acids are activated for oxidation in the cytosol by the addition of an coenzyme A group to the carboxylic acid, forming acyl-CoA. After activation, the activated fatty acid is transported to the mitochondria where it is subject to a pathway called beta-oxidation. This process releases acetyl-CoA molecules from the fatty acid, generating NADH and FADH2. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle for further oxidation. Fatty acids are stored in the cytosol as triglycerides. Fatty acids are released from triglycerides by the action of lipases. To begin the oxidation process, the fatty acid is activated by converting the carboxylic acid to thioester to coenzymeA, generating acyl-CoA. The acyl-CoA is transported into the mitochondrial matrix where oxidation occurs. Fatty acids are stored in the cytosol as triglycerides. Fatty acids are released from triglycerides by the action of lipases. To begin the oxidation process, the fatty acid is activated by converting the carboxylic acid to thioester to coenzymeA, generating acyl-CoA. The acyl-CoA is transported into the mitochondrial matrix where oxidation occurs. Fatty acids can also be synthesized from acetyl-CoA by an energy requiring process. As with glycolysis/gluconeogenesis many of the same enzymes are utilized in both pathways. However, highly exergonic reactions in the degradative pathway are accomplished by a different mechanism in the synthetic pathway. Complex carbohydrates are converted to monosaccharides and enter glycolysis at a number of different points. Most monosaccharides enter glycolysis above the step catalyzed by phosophofructose kinase (PFK). Consequently, the degradation of practically all sugars is controlled by this key regulatory enzyme. Metabolism of complex carbohydrates. Glycogen releases glucose as glucose-1-P which can be readily converted to glucose-6-P and enter glycolysis. Sucrose, or table sugar, is broken down into glucose and fructose. The fructose is phosphorylated and enters glycolysis above the PFK step. Lactose, the major sugar in milk, provides one glucose that enters glycolysis directly and one galactose. The chiral center at the fourth carbon of galactose is then inverted, creating glucose. Although the metabolism of most amino acids is a complicated multi-step process, a number of amino acids enter the main oxidative pathways by a single transaminase reaction. In the transaminase reaction a ketone group is replaced by an amino group. For example, the amino acid alanine is converted to pyruvate by the following transaminase reaction: Alanine can be reversibly converted to pyruvate by transamination. Why do Humans Get Fat? A key feature of human metabolism is the fact that the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is irreversible. Consequently, once ingested carbon from any source, fats, protein, or carbohydrates, is converted to acetyl-CoA it has only two fates: Entry into the TCA cycle for oxidation and the production of energy. Storage as triglycerides, in specialized adipose tissue. The TCA cycle is regulated by energy sensing. When the levels of the high energy compounds ATP or NADH become elevated the TCA cycle halts - there is no need for the cell to produce energy. Under these conditions, any excess acetyl-CoA is stored as fat, regardless of the source of the acetyl-CoA. The ingestion of excess amounts of proteins or carbohydrates result in the generation of fat. Fats are a less desirable form of energy storage since the production of energy from fats is slower than the production from glucose. In addition, a number of tissues in the body, in particular the brain, use glucose as their principal energy source. Consequently, the enzyme that converts pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is tightly regulated. Pyruvate dehydrogenase is inhibited by: Product inhibition by NADH and acetyl-CoA. Phosphorylation of the enzyme causes inactivation. Consequently, pyruvate will not be converted to acetyl-CoA if there is excess NADH or acetyl-CoA. Furthermore, the hormones glucagon and epinephrine, which evoke protein phosphorlation, prevent the loss of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA such that pyruvate can be used for the synthesis of glucose. Fats are synthesized from excess amino acids and sugars. Although pyruvate dehydrogenase is well regulated, it is clear by observation of the human population that the flow of carbon from pyruvate to acetyl-CoA to fatty acids still occurs. The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. Fats are stored in cells as triglycerides, the condensation product of three fatty acids with the three carbon polyalcohol glycerol. Hormonal stimulation by glucagon or epinephrine activates lipases which release the fatty acids from the glycerol. The fatty acids are activated for oxidation in the cytosol by the addition of an coenzyme A group to the carboxylic acid, forming acyl-CoA. After activation, the activated fatty acid is transported to the mitochondria where it is subject to a pathway called beta-oxidation. This process releases acetyl-CoA molecules from the fatty acid, generating NADH and FADH2. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle for further oxidation. Fatty acids are stored in the cytosol as triglycerides. Fatty acids are released from triglycerides by the action of lipases. To begin the oxidation process, the fatty acid is activated by converting the carboxylic acid to thioester to coenzymeA, generating acyl-CoA. The acyl-CoA is transported into the mitochondrial matrix where oxidation occurs. Fatty acids are stored in the cytosol as triglycerides. Fatty acids are released from triglycerides by the action of lipases. To begin the oxidation process, the fatty acid is activated by converting the carboxylic acid to thioester to coenzymeA, generating acyl-CoA. The acyl-CoA is transported into the mitochondrial matrix where oxidation occurs. Fatty acids can also be synthesized from acetyl-CoA by an energy requiring process. As with glycolysis/gluconeogenesis many of the same enzymes are utilized in both pathways. However, highly exergonic reactions in the degradative pathway are accomplished by a different mechanism in the synthetic pathway. Complex carbohydrates are converted to monosaccharides and enter glycolysis at a number of different points. Most monosaccharides enter glycolysis above the step catalyzed by phosophofructose kinase (PFK). Consequently, the degradation of practically all sugars is controlled by this key regulatory enzyme. Metabolism of complex carbohydrates. Glycogen releases glucose as glucose-1-P which can be readily converted to glucose-6-P and enter glycolysis. Sucrose, or table sugar, is broken down into glucose and fructose. The fructose is phosphorylated and enters glycolysis above the PFK step. Lactose, the major sugar in milk, provides one glucose that enters glycolysis directly and one galactose. The chiral center at the fourth carbon of galactose is then inverted, creating glucose. Although the metabolism of most amino acids is a complicated multi-step process, a number of amino acids enter the main oxidative pathways by a single transaminase reaction. In the transaminase reaction a ketone group is replaced by an amino group. For example, the amino acid alanine is converted to pyruvate by the following transaminase reaction: Alanine can be reversibly converted to pyruvate by transamination. A key feature of human metabolism is the fact that the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is irreversible. Consequently, once ingested carbon from any source, fats, protein, or carbohydrates, is converted to acetyl-CoA it has only two fates: Entry into the TCA cycle for oxidation and the production of energy. Storage as triglycerides, in specialized adipose tissue. The TCA cycle is regulated by energy sensing. When the levels of the high energy compounds ATP or NADH become elevated the TCA cycle halts - there is no need for the cell to produce energy. Under these conditions, any excess acetyl-CoA is stored as fat, regardless of the source of the acetyl-CoA. The ingestion of excess amounts of proteins or carbohydrates result in the generation of fat. Fats are a less desirable form of energy storage since the production of energy from fats is slower than the production from glucose. In addition, a number of tissues in the body, in particular the brain, use glucose as their principal energy source. Consequently, the enzyme that converts pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is tightly regulated. Pyruvate dehydrogenase is inhibited by: Product inhibition by NADH and acetyl-CoA. Phosphorylation of the enzyme causes inactivation. Consequently, pyruvate will not be converted to acetyl-CoA if there is excess NADH or acetyl-CoA. Furthermore, the hormones glucagon and epinephrine, which evoke protein phosphorlation, prevent the loss of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA such that pyruvate can be used for the synthesis of glucose. Fats are synthesized from excess amino acids and sugars. Although pyruvate dehydrogenase is well regulated, it is clear by observation of the human population that the flow of carbon from pyruvate to acetyl-CoA to fatty acids still occurs.   Obesity By the end of this module, students should be able to: Specify how fats (triglycerides) are metabolized by fatty acid oxidation. Describe how select amino acids enter the oxidative pathways. Explain how the disaccharides sucrose and lactose enter glycolysis. Tell how carbons atoms from the excess consumption of any dietary source can be incorporated into fats. Obesity and the Metabolism of Fats, Amino acids, and Complex Sugars Fats are stored in cells as triglycerides, the condensation product of three fatty acids with the three carbon polyalcohol glycerol. Hormonal stimulation by glucagon or epinephrine activates lipases which release the fatty acids from the glycerol. The fatty acids are activated for oxidation in the cytosol by the addition of an coenzyme A group to the carboxylic acid, forming acyl-CoA. After activation, the activated fatty acid is transported to the mitochondria where it is subject to a pathway called beta-oxidation. This process releases acetyl-CoA molecules from the fatty acid, generating NADH and FADH2. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle for further oxidation. Fatty acids are stored in the cytosol as triglycerides. Fatty acids are released from triglycerides by the action of lipases. To begin the oxidation process, the fatty acid is activated by converting the carboxylic acid to thioester to coenzymeA, generating acyl-CoA. The acyl-CoA is transported into the mitochondrial matrix where oxidation occurs. Fatty acids are stored in the cytosol as triglycerides. Fatty acids are released from triglycerides by the action of lipases. To begin the oxidation process, the fatty acid is activated by converting the carboxylic acid to thioester to coenzymeA, generating acyl-CoA. The acyl-CoA is transported into the mitochondrial matrix where oxidation occurs. Fatty acids can also be synthesized from acetyl-CoA by an energy requiring process. As with glycolysis/gluconeogenesis many of the same enzymes are utilized in both pathways. However, highly exergonic reactions in the degradative pathway are accomplished by a different mechanism in the synthetic pathway. Complex carbohydrates are converted to monosaccharides and enter glycolysis at a number of different points. Most monosaccharides enter glycolysis above the step catalyzed by phosophofructose kinase (PFK). Consequently, the degradation of practically all sugars is controlled by this key regulatory enzyme. Metabolism of complex carbohydrates. Glycogen releases glucose as glucose-1-P which can be readily converted to glucose-6-P and enter glycolysis. Sucrose, or table sugar, is broken down into glucose and fructose. The fructose is phosphorylated and enters glycolysis above the PFK step. Lactose, the major sugar in milk, provides one glucose that enters glycolysis directly and one galactose. The chiral center at the fourth carbon of galactose is then inverted, creating glucose. Although the metabolism of most amino acids is a complicated multi-step process, a number of amino acids enter the main oxidative pathways by a single transaminase reaction. In the transaminase reaction a ketone group is replaced by an amino group. For example, the amino acid alanine is converted to pyruvate by the following transaminase reaction: Alanine can be reversibly converted to pyruvate by transamination. Why do Humans Get Fat? A key feature of human metabolism is the fact that the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is irreversible. Consequently, once ingested carbon from any source, fats, protein, or carbohydrates, is converted to acetyl-CoA it has only two fates: Entry into the TCA cycle for oxidation and the production of energy. Storage as triglycerides, in specialized adipose tissue. The TCA cycle is regulated by energy sensing. When the levels of the high energy compounds ATP or NADH become elevated the TCA cycle halts - there is no need for the cell to produce energy. Under these conditions, any excess acetyl-CoA is stored as fat, regardless of the source of the acetyl-CoA. The ingestion of excess amounts of proteins or carbohydrates result in the generation of fat. Fats are a less desirable form of energy storage since the production of energy from fats is slower than the production from glucose. In addition, a number of tissues in the body, in particular the brain, use glucose as their principal energy source. Consequently, the enzyme that converts pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is tightly regulated. Pyruvate dehydrogenase is inhibited by: Product inhibition by NADH and acetyl-CoA. Phosphorylation of the enzyme causes inactivation. Consequently, pyruvate will not be converted to acetyl-CoA if there is excess NADH or acetyl-CoA. Furthermore, the hormones glucagon and epinephrine, which evoke protein phosphorlation, prevent the loss of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA such that pyruvate can be used for the synthesis of glucose. Fats are synthesized from excess amino acids and sugars. Although pyruvate dehydrogenase is well regulated, it is clear by observation of the human population that the flow of carbon from pyruvate to acetyl-CoA to fatty acids still occurs. Fats are stored in cells as triglycerides, the condensation product of three fatty acids with the three carbon polyalcohol glycerol. Hormonal stimulation by glucagon or epinephrine activates lipases which release the fatty acids from the glycerol. The fatty acids are activated for oxidation in the cytosol by the addition of an coenzyme A group to the carboxylic acid, forming acyl-CoA. After activation, the activated fatty acid is transported to the mitochondria where it is subject to a pathway called beta-oxidation. This process releases acetyl-CoA molecules from the fatty acid, generating NADH and FADH2. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle for further oxidation. Fatty acids are stored in the cytosol as triglycerides. Fatty acids are released from triglycerides by the action of lipases. To begin the oxidation process, the fatty acid is activated by converting the carboxylic acid to thioester to coenzymeA, generating acyl-CoA. The acyl-CoA is transported into the mitochondrial matrix where oxidation occurs. Fatty acids are stored in the cytosol as triglycerides. Fatty acids are released from triglycerides by the action of lipases. To begin the oxidation process, the fatty acid is activated by converting the carboxylic acid to thioester to coenzymeA, generating acyl-CoA. The acyl-CoA is transported into the mitochondrial matrix where oxidation occurs. Fatty acids can also be synthesized from acetyl-CoA by an energy requiring process. As with glycolysis/gluconeogenesis many of the same enzymes are utilized in both pathways. However, highly exergonic reactions in the degradative pathway are accomplished by a different mechanism in the synthetic pathway. Complex carbohydrates are converted to monosaccharides and enter glycolysis at a number of different points. Most monosaccharides enter glycolysis above the step catalyzed by phosophofructose kinase (PFK). Consequently, the degradation of practically all sugars is controlled by this key regulatory enzyme. Metabolism of complex carbohydrates. Glycogen releases glucose as glucose-1-P which can be readily converted to glucose-6-P and enter glycolysis. Sucrose, or table sugar, is broken down into glucose and fructose. The fructose is phosphorylated and enters glycolysis above the PFK step. Lactose, the major sugar in milk, provides one glucose that enters glycolysis directly and one galactose. The chiral center at the fourth carbon of galactose is then inverted, creating glucose. Although the metabolism of most amino acids is a complicated multi-step process, a number of amino acids enter the main oxidative pathways by a single transaminase reaction. In the transaminase reaction a ketone group is replaced by an amino group. For example, the amino acid alanine is converted to pyruvate by the following transaminase reaction: Alanine can be reversibly converted to pyruvate by transamination. A key feature of human metabolism is the fact that the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is irreversible. Consequently, once ingested carbon from any source, fats, protein, or carbohydrates, is converted to acetyl-CoA it has only two fates: Entry into the TCA cycle for oxidation and the production of energy. Storage as triglycerides, in specialized adipose tissue. The TCA cycle is regulated by energy sensing. When the levels of the high energy compounds ATP or NADH become elevated the TCA cycle halts - there is no need for the cell to produce energy. Under these conditions, any excess acetyl-CoA is stored as fat, regardless of the source of the acetyl-CoA. The ingestion of excess amounts of proteins or carbohydrates result in the generation of fat. Fats are a less desirable form of energy storage since the production of energy from fats is slower than the production from glucose. In addition, a number of tissues in the body, in particular the brain, use glucose as their principal energy source. Consequently, the enzyme that converts pyruvate to acetyl-CoA is tightly regulated. Pyruvate dehydrogenase is inhibited by: Product inhibition by NADH and acetyl-CoA. Phosphorylation of the enzyme causes inactivation. Consequently, pyruvate will not be converted to acetyl-CoA if there is excess NADH or acetyl-CoA. Furthermore, the hormones glucagon and epinephrine, which evoke protein phosphorlation, prevent the loss of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA such that pyruvate can be used for the synthesis of glucose. Fats are synthesized from excess amino acids and sugars. Although pyruvate dehydrogenase is well regulated, it is clear by observation of the human population that the flow of carbon from pyruvate to acetyl-CoA to fatty acids still occurs.   Food Chains and Food Webs Energy and nutrients take many complicated paths through an ecosystem. Feeding relationships are a good place to start; they describe how atoms and calories move through the living community. Take as an example the simple act of eating a tomato. A tomato plant grows and produces fruit only if it has plenty of light and nutrients. Chemical energy is stored in the bonds that join together the tomatos organic molecules. After you eat and digest a tomato, some of its molecules are broken down into their subunits. Your cells can use some of that energy to make new molecules or run processes in your cells. Much of it is released as heat. The simple example above illustrates two transfers of energy: sunlight  tomato and tomato  human. Every organism in an ecosystem must obtain its energy through one or more such transfers. Some organisms are close to the source of energy (the tomato); others are several steps down the line (a hawk that eats a bird that ate a caterpillar that ate the tomato plant). We can break a community up into a series of food-based groups called trophic levels. Trophic level 1 is composed of producers that form the base of all ecosystems. Organisms in level 1 are eaten by organisms in level 2; organisms in level 2 are eaten by organisms in level 3; organisms in level 3 are by organisms in level 4, and so on. The energy that fuels most ecosystems comes from the sun. Photosynthetic producers such as plants are found in trophic level 1. Organisms in level 1 do not consume other living organisms to obtain nutrients. They can make simple organic food molecules from inorganic raw materials using light energy from the sun. Plants, algae, and cyanobacteria are the photosynthetic producers that make up trophic level 1 in most ecosystems. Organisms in level 2 and beyond are called consumers because they obtain food by eating plants or by eating organisms that have eaten plants. Animals, fungi, and many microbes are consumers. Consumers are identified as primary, secondary and tertiary depending on their trophic level. Cows eat grass and are primary consumers. When you consume a salad, you too are acting as a primary consumer. Humans who eat meat from cattle act as secondary consumers. In addition to the chains of consumers that eat living prey, many consumers feed on dead organic material. Dead plants, dead animals, shed parts of animals such as fur or skin, shed parts of plants such as leaves, and feces all contain nutrients and calories. Animals that feed on dead organic matter are called detritivores; some of them specialize on eating dead animals (e.g., vultures) and others feed on dead plant material (e.g., earthworms, which consume decaying leaves). Bacteria and fungi that colonize dead material and absorb food molecules from it are called decomposers. Detritivores and decomposers extract remaining calories and nutrients found in dead organisms and dung. In the process, they release simple inorganic wastes to the environment, making chemical elements available to producers. A food chain is a group of organisms that are joined in a linear series of feeding relationships. Each species in a food chain gains energy from a single source and is, in turn, a source of energy to at most one consumer as shown in the picture below: CAPTION: A simple food chain diagram. Light energy flows from the sun. The plant uses that energy to produce food energy. The grasshopper eats the plant leaves. The mouse eats the grasshopper and the snake eats the mouse. In the food chain above, the plant is the producer, the grasshopper is the primary consumer, the mouse the secondary consumer and the snake is the top predator or tertiary consumer. Food chains help us trace the flow of energy and materials through ecosystems. Based on the transfers shown above, plants are in trophic level 1, grasshoppers are in trophic level 2, mice are in level 3, and snakes are in level 4. Each level is dependent on the previous level as a source of food and may provide nutrients and energy to a subsequent level. Food chains are not very realistic. In real ecosystems, food chains overlap and are interconnected as food webs. Consumers rarely specialize on only one type of food. Many of them are omnivores, feeding on more than one trophic level. Mice, for example, may eat: plant seeds or fruits (acting as primary consumers, trophic level 2) grasshoppers (acting as secondary consumers, trophic level 3) dead snakes or snake eggs (acting as level 5 consumers) In addition, most organisms are fed upon by more than one species. A mice could be eaten by a snake, but it could also be eaten by an owl, a hawk, or a house cat. A complete food web shows all of these possible feeding relationships. In diagrams that depict food chains or food webs, the arrow points from the organism being eaten to the organism doing the eating. In other words, the arrows follow the flow of energy and nutrients through the ecosystem. Let's consider the following situation. A barn owl eats a mouse. This mouse has eaten a grasshopper. The grasshopper has eaten the leaves of a strawberry plant. By US Geological Survey (Chesapeake Waterbird Food Web) Public Domain   Introduction to Ecosystems Up to this point, we have focused on the living components of the environment. Consider a suburban backyard that is home to diverse species, including robins, squirrels, ants, oak trees, grass, rabbits, daisies, spiders, toads, mushrooms, and raccoons. These living, or biotic, components together make up an ecological community. Its populations affect each other directly and indirectly as we just explored. But each population also interacts with a host of nonliving factors. A grass plant, for instance, requires light, carbon dioxide gas, soil nutrients, and water. It is affected by temperature and by factors like snow cover or fires. In turn, it influences nonliving factors as well. Its roots, for example, hold soil in place. To fully appreciate an organisms role in the environment, we must go beyond the web of life. We must also consider nonliving, or abiotic, components of the environment: rocks, water, gases in the air, chemicals in soil and water, light, temperature, wind, and waves. The combination of biotic and abiotic components forms an ecosystem. A community is restricted to the populations of living organisms in an area; an ecosystem also includes all of the nonliving physical and chemical factors that are important to these populations. In a healthy ecosystem, there is a continuous flow of energy that provides resources to sustain a diverse community of life. As we will explore in this module, energy starts in a nonliving form, usually as sunlight, and is captured and stored as chemical energy by producers. It then moves through chains of consumers, dissipating as heat along the way. A continuing supply of solar energy keeps this system in motion. As they take up and release energy, growing organisms also absorb chemical nutrients and release chemical wastes. There is a continuous exchange of material between the living and nonliving portions of the ecosystem. Each chemical element retains its integrity but takes on many different forms as chemical bonds are formed and broken. To see how this material recycling takes place, think about a leaf on a tree. Its living tissue contains organic molecules rich in carbon (C), hydrogen (H), nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), phosphorus (P), sulfur (S), and other elements. In autumn, the leaf dies and falls to the ground. Over time, the leaf decays. Bacteria and fungi feed on the leaf material. In the process, its large organic molecules are broken down to simpler inorganic molecules. Focusing on just one element, the nitrogen atoms that were in the leaf are now released to the soil as ammonium (NH4+). To complete the cycle back to life, plants take up ammonium through their roots and use its nitrogen to make proteins and nucleic acids. Thus, nitrogen has cycled between the biotic and abiotic components of the ecosystem.   Ecosystems: Summary Summary Living things do not live in isolation. Nonliving factors in the environment, such as sunlight, rain, gases in the air, and chemicals in the soil can affect the ability of organisms to survive and are called abiotic factors. Ecosystems include producers, organisms that can use energy from sunlight to synthesize their own food molecules. Other organisms, classified as consumers, must eat producers or other consumers. Feeding relationships among the members of the ecosystem form a food chain, starting at the lowest level with the producers and moving to primary and secondary and tertiary consumers. Energy flows through the ecosystem, dissipating as heat with each transfer. Chemicals, by contrast, are recycled. Biologically important chemicals such as water, carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycle between the biotic and abiotic components of an ecosystem. You are dependent on and participate in a global ecosystem. As a consumer you depend on producers for food energy. If you eat producers directly and live on trophic level 2, your overall requirements for productive land, water, fertilizer, and other inputs are relatively low. If you eat a lot of animal products that are fed grain, your requirements are greater. In any case, you participate in activities that influence chemical cycling on a global scale. You will learn more about human activities and their environmental impacts in the next module. Key Terms biogeochemical cycles biomass consumers ecosystem energy pyramid food chain food web producers trophic levels Living things do not live in isolation. Nonliving factors in the environment, such as sunlight, rain, gases in the air, and chemicals in the soil can affect the ability of organisms to survive and are called abiotic factors. Ecosystems include producers, organisms that can use energy from sunlight to synthesize their own food molecules. Other organisms, classified as consumers, must eat producers or other consumers. Feeding relationships among the members of the ecosystem form a food chain, starting at the lowest level with the producers and moving to primary and secondary and tertiary consumers. Energy flows through the ecosystem, dissipating as heat with each transfer. Chemicals, by contrast, are recycled. Biologically important chemicals such as water, carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycle between the biotic and abiotic components of an ecosystem. You are dependent on and participate in a global ecosystem. As a consumer you depend on producers for food energy. If you eat producers directly and live on trophic level 2, your overall requirements for productive land, water, fertilizer, and other inputs are relatively low. If you eat a lot of animal products that are fed grain, your requirements are greater. In any case, you participate in activities that influence chemical cycling on a global scale. You will learn more about human activities and their environmental impacts in the next module. biogeochemical cycles biomass consumers ecosystem energy pyramid food chain food web producers trophic levels   What are Carbohydrates? Carbohydrates are organic molecules that consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms in a 1:2:1 ratio. The most abundant class of macromolecules found in living systems, carbohydrates are the primary source of energy in living systems. Large complex carbohydrates can be used to store energy. For example, a potato is full of starch, which is a complex carbohydrate that the potato plant uses to store energy. When you eat the complex carbohydrate, your body breaks the large molecules into their smaller subunits (sugars), which you will then use to fuel your own bodys energy needs. Carbohydrates can also be used as structural building materials. Cellulose is an example of a complex carbohydrate used in plants for structural support. Within plant cell walls, cellulose molecules form chains that provide high tensile strength. In some plants, cellulose is also included in a secondary cell wall, which adds rigidity and waterproofing. This helps tree bark, plant leaf stalks, and other structures resist wind and other physical forces in the environment. Office of Biological and Environmental Research, U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science. http://genomicscience.energy.gov Public Domain. Cellulose, while indigestible to humans, is an important part of our diets because it makes up dietary fiber, which has been linked to lowered risk of diabetes and heart disease. In this module, you will take a closer look at the structure and function of these important macromolecules. Characteristics of Carbohydrates The paper you write on, the bowl of cereal you eat for breakfast, and the energy you use to walk up a flight of stairs all come from carbohydrates. Rice, wheat, and corn are some of humanitys most important crops; these foods are the primary source of energy for much of our population. All three of these foods are high in carbohydrates. A carbohydrate is an organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Carbohydrates are either simple (often referred to as sugars) or complex. Simple carbohydrates (sugars) are made up of only one or two sugar monomers. Each monomer has the proportion of carbon to hydrogen to oxygen in the ratio of 1:2:1, or CH2O. You can see why these compounds are called carbohydrates; in a monomer, each carbon is hydrated. Complex carbohydrates are made up of more than two sugar monomers covalently bonded together. Carbohydrates can be further subclassified, again on the basis of structure, depending on the number of monomers in each molecule: monosaccharides and disaccharides (simple carbohydrates) and polysaccharides (complex carbohydrates). The table below summarizes the charateristics of carbohydrates based on their size and number of sugar molecule subunits. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Type of Carbohydrates No. of Sugar Subunits Examples and Sources monosaccharide (simple sugars) 1 glucose: many plants and fruits, honey, sport drinks; fructose: fruit, honey, sweetener in many processed foods (high-fructose corn syrup) disaccharide 2 lactose: dairy products (milk, butter, cheese, yogurt); sucrose: "table sugar," sugarcane, sugar beets, candy; maltose: germinating seeds, beer polysaccharide (complex carbohydrates) 3 or more starch: plants and roots, potatoes, wheat, corn, rice; cellulose: plants Simple carbohydrates are quickly and easily accessed to generate energy the cell can use, while complex carbohydrates are used to store energy for a longer period of time. Some complex carbohydrates are also used as structural components. Carbohydrates also play a role in cell signaling and recognition within multicellular organisms. Carbohydrates are organic molecules that consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms in a 1:2:1 ratio. The most abundant class of macromolecules found in living systems, carbohydrates are the primary source of energy in living systems. Large complex carbohydrates can be used to store energy. For example, a potato is full of starch, which is a complex carbohydrate that the potato plant uses to store energy. When you eat the complex carbohydrate, your body breaks the large molecules into their smaller subunits (sugars), which you will then use to fuel your own bodys energy needs. Carbohydrates can also be used as structural building materials. Cellulose is an example of a complex carbohydrate used in plants for structural support. Within plant cell walls, cellulose molecules form chains that provide high tensile strength. In some plants, cellulose is also included in a secondary cell wall, which adds rigidity and waterproofing. This helps tree bark, plant leaf stalks, and other structures resist wind and other physical forces in the environment. Office of Biological and Environmental Research, U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science. http://genomicscience.energy.gov Public Domain. Cellulose, while indigestible to humans, is an important part of our diets because it makes up dietary fiber, which has been linked to lowered risk of diabetes and heart disease. In this module, you will take a closer look at the structure and function of these important macromolecules. The paper you write on, the bowl of cereal you eat for breakfast, and the energy you use to walk up a flight of stairs all come from carbohydrates. Rice, wheat, and corn are some of humanitys most important crops; these foods are the primary source of energy for much of our population. All three of these foods are high in carbohydrates. A carbohydrate is an organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Carbohydrates are either simple (often referred to as sugars) or complex. Simple carbohydrates (sugars) are made up of only one or two sugar monomers. Each monomer has the proportion of carbon to hydrogen to oxygen in the ratio of 1:2:1, or CH2O. You can see why these compounds are called carbohydrates; in a monomer, each carbon is hydrated. Complex carbohydrates are made up of more than two sugar monomers covalently bonded together. Carbohydrates can be further subclassified, again on the basis of structure, depending on the number of monomers in each molecule: monosaccharides and disaccharides (simple carbohydrates) and polysaccharides (complex carbohydrates). The table below summarizes the charateristics of carbohydrates based on their size and number of sugar molecule subunits. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Type of Carbohydrates No. of Sugar Subunits Examples and Sources monosaccharide (simple sugars) 1 glucose: many plants and fruits, honey, sport drinks; fructose: fruit, honey, sweetener in many processed foods (high-fructose corn syrup) disaccharide 2 lactose: dairy products (milk, butter, cheese, yogurt); sucrose: "table sugar," sugarcane, sugar beets, candy; maltose: germinating seeds, beer polysaccharide (complex carbohydrates) 3 or more starch: plants and roots, potatoes, wheat, corn, rice; cellulose: plants Simple carbohydrates are quickly and easily accessed to generate energy the cell can use, while complex carbohydrates are used to store energy for a longer period of time. Some complex carbohydrates are also used as structural components. Carbohydrates also play a role in cell signaling and recognition within multicellular organisms.   What Are Carbohydrates? The paper you write on, the bowl of cereal you eat for breakfast, and the energy you use to walk up a flight of stairs all come from carbohydrates. Rice, wheat, and corn are some of humanitys most important crops; these foods are the primary source of energy for much of our population. All three of these foods are high in carbohydrates. A carbohydrate is an organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Carbohydrates are either simple (often referred to as sugars) or complex. Simple carbohydrates (sugars) are made up of only one or two sugar monomers. Each monomer has the proportion of carbon to hydrogen to oxygen in the ratio of 1:2:1, or CH2O). You can see why these compounds are called carbohydrates; in a monomer, each carbon is hydrated. Complex carbohydrates are made up of more than two sugar monomers linked together. Carbohydrates can be further subclassified, again on the basis of structure, depending on the number of monomers in each molecule: monosaccharides and disaccharides (simple carbohydrates) and polysaccharides (complex carbohydrates). Simple carbohydrates are quickly and easily accessed to generate energy the cell can use, while complex carbohydrates are used to store energy for a longer period of time. Some complex carbohydrates are also used as structural components. Carbohydrates also play a role in cell signaling and recognition within multicellular organisms.   Structure of Carbohydrates Monosaccharides Monosaccharides are the simplest sugars. The root mono means "one," and saccharide refers to an organic molecule where the ratio of carbon:hydrogen:oxygen is 1:2:1 (i.e., CNH2NON). The more common monosaccharides contain six carbons and have a molecular formula of C6H12O6. Glucose, fructose (fruit sugar), and galactose are examples of six-carbon monosaccharides. A common five-carbon monosaccharide is ribose (the sugar component of RNA), which has a molecular formula of C5H10O5. DNA contains a modified ribose where one of the oxygen atoms has been removed, hence the name deoxyribonucleic acid. Shorter monosaccharides exist as linear molecules while five- and six-carbon monosaccharides form ring-like structures. Sample Monosaccharides Glucose (a) and fructose (b) are monosaccharides containing six carbons. Ribose (c) is a monosaccharide containing five carbons. Disaccharides Disaccharides are made of two monosaccharides linked together by a covalent bond (the root di means "two"). glucose + fructose = sucrose (table sugar) glucose + galactose = lactose (milk sugar) Disaccharides Sucrose is composed of one glucose and one fructose linked together. Polysaccharides Polysaccharides are long chains of monosaccharides (poly means "many"). Glycogen, starch (amylose and amylopectin), and cellulose are all made of many linked glucose monomers. Glycogen is mainly used for energy storage in animals. Starch is mainly used for energy storage in plants. Cellulose is mainly used for maintaining plant structure. These three molecules are all made of glucose, so why do they have such different functions? The main difference is how the glucose monomers are linked together. This is a prime example of one of the central themes of biology: form affects function. These differences are explained in more detail below. Chitin, a modified structural polysaccharide, is best known as a major component of the exoskeleton (hard outer shell) of arthropods (e.g., beetles, crabs, lobsters) and mollusks (e.g., snails, clams, scallops). However, chitin also plays a minor role in the cell structure of some fungi, algae, and yeasts. Chitin (C8H13NO5)n is comprised of slightly-modified glucose monomers. Monosaccharides are the simplest sugars. The root mono means "one," and saccharide refers to an organic molecule where the ratio of carbon:hydrogen:oxygen is 1:2:1 (i.e., CNH2NON). The more common monosaccharides contain six carbons and have a molecular formula of C6H12O6. Glucose, fructose (fruit sugar), and galactose are examples of six-carbon monosaccharides. A common five-carbon monosaccharide is ribose (the sugar component of RNA), which has a molecular formula of C5H10O5. DNA contains a modified ribose where one of the oxygen atoms has been removed, hence the name deoxyribonucleic acid. Shorter monosaccharides exist as linear molecules while five- and six-carbon monosaccharides form ring-like structures. Sample Monosaccharides Glucose (a) and fructose (b) are monosaccharides containing six carbons. Ribose (c) is a monosaccharide containing five carbons. Disaccharides are made of two monosaccharides linked together by a covalent bond (the root di means "two"). glucose + fructose = sucrose (table sugar) glucose + galactose = lactose (milk sugar) Disaccharides Sucrose is composed of one glucose and one fructose linked together. Polysaccharides are long chains of monosaccharides (poly means "many"). Glycogen, starch (amylose and amylopectin), and cellulose are all made of many linked glucose monomers. Glycogen is mainly used for energy storage in animals. Starch is mainly used for energy storage in plants. Cellulose is mainly used for maintaining plant structure. These three molecules are all made of glucose, so why do they have such different functions? The main difference is how the glucose monomers are linked together. This is a prime example of one of the central themes of biology: form affects function. These differences are explained in more detail below. Chitin, a modified structural polysaccharide, is best known as a major component of the exoskeleton (hard outer shell) of arthropods (e.g., beetles, crabs, lobsters) and mollusks (e.g., snails, clams, scallops). However, chitin also plays a minor role in the cell structure of some fungi, algae, and yeasts. Chitin (C8H13NO5)n is comprised of slightly-modified glucose monomers.   Function of Carbohydrates Source of Stored Energy Digestible carbohydrates provide energy in a form that is easily accessible. Glucose, with the chemical formula C6H12O6, is a simple sugar and a monosaccharide. It is one of the most abundant and important energy molecules for living things. The energy stored in covalent bonds between atoms (within a glucose molecule, in this case) is released during cellular respiration, when glucose is broken down and converted to simpler, more stable molecules. This energy can be captured to make ATP, which can then be used to power cellular processes. This will be covered in greater detail in the metabolism unit. In animals, excess glucose molecules are linked together (through an anabolic pathway) to make a long branching polysaccharide called glycogen. Glycogen is primarily stored in the liver, with small amounts being stored in the muscles. Once glycogen stores are filled, the body begins storing excess food calories as fat. Conversely, when food intake is insufficient to keep up with energy requirements, the body will break down its glycogen stores to release individual glucose monosaccharides. Glycogen Can be Broken Down into Glucose When energy is needed, glycogen stores can be broken down into individual glucose molecules. The glucose can then be used to make ATP (a usable form of energy for the cell). Starch Starch, another branching polysaccharide, is the primary form in which excess glucose is stored in plants (and other producers). Starch, just like glycogen, is composed of individual glucose monomers joined together. And, like glycogen, starch is broken down to release individual glucose molecules that can be used to build ATP. The difference between these two energy storage polysaccharides lies in the organization of the glucose monosaccharides. Starch Can Be Broken Down into Glucose When energy is needed, starch stores can be broken down into individual glucose molecules. The glucose can then be used to make ATP (a usable form of energy for the cell). Carbohydrates as a Structural Component Cellulose, like glycogen and starch, is a polysaccharide that is made up of many glucose monosaccharides linked together. Cellulose is an important structural carbohydrate that provides support within plant cell walls. This carbohydrate is indigestible by humans and most animals. Some animals (e.g. cows, horses, and termites) can digest this carbohydrate. These animals have symbiotic (living together) bacteria that inhabit their digestive tract. The bacteria produce enzymes that break down cellulose, making sugar available to their hosts. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are the molecules involved with storing our genetic information (DNA) or the conversion of that information into proteins (RNA). Sugars (deoxyribose in DNA, ribose in RNA) play a part in the structure of these nucleic acid molecules. They alternate with phosphate groups to make up the long backbone of nucleic acids, as shown below. Carbohydrates as Cell Recognition and Signaling Molecules Although we will not delve into the specifics of this topic, carbohydrates play a variety of roles in identification and signaling. One of the ways your immune system is able to identify foreign invaders is through detection of the different carbohydrates displayed on the surface of cells. Additionally, the first step in fertilization between a sperm and egg is generally believed to involve carbohydrate-to-carbohydrate interactions. As a final example, the specific carbohydrates attached to the surface of your red blood cells determine your blood group (A,B,O) and predict what kind of blood you can safely receive in a transfusion. Digestible carbohydrates provide energy in a form that is easily accessible. Glucose, with the chemical formula C6H12O6, is a simple sugar and a monosaccharide. It is one of the most abundant and important energy molecules for living things. The energy stored in covalent bonds between atoms (within a glucose molecule, in this case) is released during cellular respiration, when glucose is broken down and converted to simpler, more stable molecules. This energy can be captured to make ATP, which can then be used to power cellular processes. This will be covered in greater detail in the metabolism unit. In animals, excess glucose molecules are linked together (through an anabolic pathway) to make a long branching polysaccharide called glycogen. Glycogen is primarily stored in the liver, with small amounts being stored in the muscles. Once glycogen stores are filled, the body begins storing excess food calories as fat. Conversely, when food intake is insufficient to keep up with energy requirements, the body will break down its glycogen stores to release individual glucose monosaccharides. Glycogen Can be Broken Down into Glucose When energy is needed, glycogen stores can be broken down into individual glucose molecules. The glucose can then be used to make ATP (a usable form of energy for the cell). Starch, another branching polysaccharide, is the primary form in which excess glucose is stored in plants (and other producers). Starch, just like glycogen, is composed of individual glucose monomers joined together. And, like glycogen, starch is broken down to release individual glucose molecules that can be used to build ATP. The difference between these two energy storage polysaccharides lies in the organization of the glucose monosaccharides. Starch Can Be Broken Down into Glucose When energy is needed, starch stores can be broken down into individual glucose molecules. The glucose can then be used to make ATP (a usable form of energy for the cell). Cellulose, like glycogen and starch, is a polysaccharide that is made up of many glucose monosaccharides linked together. Cellulose is an important structural carbohydrate that provides support within plant cell walls. This carbohydrate is indigestible by humans and most animals. Some animals (e.g. cows, horses, and termites) can digest this carbohydrate. These animals have symbiotic (living together) bacteria that inhabit their digestive tract. The bacteria produce enzymes that break down cellulose, making sugar available to their hosts. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are the molecules involved with storing our genetic information (DNA) or the conversion of that information into proteins (RNA). Sugars (deoxyribose in DNA, ribose in RNA) play a part in the structure of these nucleic acid molecules. They alternate with phosphate groups to make up the long backbone of nucleic acids, as shown below. Although we will not delve into the specifics of this topic, carbohydrates play a variety of roles in identification and signaling. One of the ways your immune system is able to identify foreign invaders is through detection of the different carbohydrates displayed on the surface of cells. Additionally, the first step in fertilization between a sperm and egg is generally believed to involve carbohydrate-to-carbohydrate interactions. As a final example, the specific carbohydrates attached to the surface of your red blood cells determine your blood group (A,B,O) and predict what kind of blood you can safely receive in a transfusion.   Introduction to Carbohydrates Describe the three major functions of carbohydrates. What are Carbohydates? One of the simplest of the biological molecules is the carbohydrate. The name is descriptive of the character of this class of molecules since they all have the general formula of a hydrated carbon. (C(H2O))n We are starting with this class of molecules because they are the basis for the classical naming of the enantiomers encountered in biological molecules. But before we examine the structure of these compounds, let us look at some of the basic uses/functions of the carbohydrates. Funcions of Carbohydrates The primary function of carbohydrates is as a source of energy. You will recall that molecules are a collection of atoms connected by covalent bonds. In general, single covalent bonds can be represented as having approximately 100 Kcal/mole of energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. The most common carbohydrate in nature is glucose, which has the general formula (C(H2O))6 or C6H12O6. When glucose is completely metabolized in a cell, 673 kcal of energy is released for each mole of glucose. The net equation for this process of glucose oxidation can be written as follows: (C(H2O))6 + 6 O2 -------------> 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + 673 kcal (energy) The challenge for the cell is to capture released energy and convert it to a useful form so that it can do work (e.g. power movement or build new macromolecules). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism section of the course. The second function for the carbohydrates is structure. In this case, structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has, but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. Another example is the peptido-glycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. In this case, the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose, but the end result is the formation of a matrix. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated. A third function for carbohydrates is that of cell recognition and signaling. Just as we identified a peptido-glycan as a conjunction (conjugation) of a peptide with a polysaccharide, other complex carbohydrates are conjugated to other molecules to form glycoproteins (carbohydrates linked to proteins) and glycolipids (carbohydrates linked to lipids). Because a very large number of structures can be made from a few monosaccharides (simple carbohydrates), a very large number of different structures can be made from a few simple carbohydrates, as will be seen later. This large number of different structures can therefore be used as unique signals for identification of individual cell types. One of the simplest of the biological molecules is the carbohydrate. The name is descriptive of the character of this class of molecules since they all have the general formula of a hydrated carbon. (C(H2O))n We are starting with this class of molecules because they are the basis for the classical naming of the enantiomers encountered in biological molecules. But before we examine the structure of these compounds, let us look at some of the basic uses/functions of the carbohydrates. The primary function of carbohydrates is as a source of energy. You will recall that molecules are a collection of atoms connected by covalent bonds. In general, single covalent bonds can be represented as having approximately 100 Kcal/mole of energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. The most common carbohydrate in nature is glucose, which has the general formula (C(H2O))6 or C6H12O6. When glucose is completely metabolized in a cell, 673 kcal of energy is released for each mole of glucose. The net equation for this process of glucose oxidation can be written as follows: (C(H2O))6 + 6 O2 -------------> 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + 673 kcal (energy) The challenge for the cell is to capture released energy and convert it to a useful form so that it can do work (e.g. power movement or build new macromolecules). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism section of the course. The second function for the carbohydrates is structure. In this case, structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has, but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. Another example is the peptido-glycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. In this case, the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose, but the end result is the formation of a matrix. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated. A third function for carbohydrates is that of cell recognition and signaling. Just as we identified a peptido-glycan as a conjunction (conjugation) of a peptide with a polysaccharide, other complex carbohydrates are conjugated to other molecules to form glycoproteins (carbohydrates linked to proteins) and glycolipids (carbohydrates linked to lipids). Because a very large number of structures can be made from a few monosaccharides (simple carbohydrates), a very large number of different structures can be made from a few simple carbohydrates, as will be seen later. This large number of different structures can therefore be used as unique signals for identification of individual cell types.   Enzymes in Anabolic and Catabolic Pathways Enzymes catalyze many different types of chemical reactions. Some of the reactions are synthetic and result in products that are more complex than the original substrates. This is often done by binding two substrates together. Synthetic metabolic pathways like this are called anabolic pathways. Other enzymes catalyze reactions that reduce the substrate to simpler products. These enzymes catalyze reactions in catabolic pathways. An example of an enzyme that is involved in catabolism is lactase. Lactase is produced in the intestinal tract of mammals and breaks the sugar in milk, lactose, down into the monosaccharides glucose and galactose so that they can be metabolized to produce energy. The enzyme lactase breaks lactose into the monosaccharides galactose and glucose by adding a water molecule to the bond between the two sugars. Unfortunately, in many adults the ability to produce lactase is diminished. Without adequate lactase, ingested lactose from milk and cheese is not broken down and absorbed in the small intestine. Instead, the lactose goes to the large intestine, where it is converted into large volumes of carbon dioxide (CO2) gas by the bacteria in the large intestine. These individuals are lactose intolerant and should avoid eating foods with high milk content.   Application Spotlight: Lactose Intolerance Lactase is an example of an enzyme that breaks large molecules down into smaller ones. Lactase is produced in the intestinal tract of mammals and breaks the sugar in milk, lactose, into the monosaccharides glucose and galactose. The monosaccharides can then be metabolized to produce energy. Lactase breaks lactose into galactose and glucose by adding a water molecule to the bond between the two sugars. Without adequate lactase, ingested lactose from milk and cheese is not broken down, and therefore cannot be absorbed in the small intestine. Instead, the lactose goes to the large intestine, where it is eaten by bacteria that live there. After metabolizing the lactose, the bacteria produce large volumes of carbon dioxide (CO2) gas, which results in significant discomfort for the individual lacking lactase. Unfortunately, as many individuals age, their ability to produce lactase is diminished. This is especially true for individuals from Asian, African, Native American, or Mediterranean descent. The incidence of lactose intolerance is lower for those of European descent. Approximately one in seven American adults suffer from lactose intolerance, and African Americans can show signs of lactose intolerance as early as two years of age. These individuals are lactose intolerant and should avoid eating foods with high lactose content, such as milk. Milk products, such as buttermilk, yogurt, and cheese, cause less of a problem because the amount of lactose in these products is reduced by the microorganisms that are used to make them. Lactose intolerant individuals can consume milk under certain conditions. Lactase is an example of an enzyme that breaks large molecules down into smaller ones. Lactase is produced in the intestinal tract of mammals and breaks the sugar in milk, lactose, into the monosaccharides glucose and galactose. The monosaccharides can then be metabolized to produce energy. Lactase breaks lactose into galactose and glucose by adding a water molecule to the bond between the two sugars. Without adequate lactase, ingested lactose from milk and cheese is not broken down, and therefore cannot be absorbed in the small intestine. Instead, the lactose goes to the large intestine, where it is eaten by bacteria that live there. After metabolizing the lactose, the bacteria produce large volumes of carbon dioxide (CO2) gas, which results in significant discomfort for the individual lacking lactase. Unfortunately, as many individuals age, their ability to produce lactase is diminished. This is especially true for individuals from Asian, African, Native American, or Mediterranean descent. The incidence of lactose intolerance is lower for those of European descent. Approximately one in seven American adults suffer from lactose intolerance, and African Americans can show signs of lactose intolerance as early as two years of age. These individuals are lactose intolerant and should avoid eating foods with high lactose content, such as milk. Milk products, such as buttermilk, yogurt, and cheese, cause less of a problem because the amount of lactose in these products is reduced by the microorganisms that are used to make them. Lactose intolerant individuals can consume milk under certain conditions.   Metabolism: Stepwise Chemical Transformations In this unit on metabolism, we will investigate in some detail the production of energy from glucose and how this process is regulated to maintain homeostasis. Since the entire process of metabolism is complex, it is useful to discuss the general features of the metabolic pathways that are involved in converting sugars, amino acids, and fats to energy. Important features of metabolic pathways include: Input and output compounds Cellular location of a pathway Type of energy produced by a pathway Sugars are broken down (i.e., degraded) as follows: Glycolysis is the first pathway used to degrade sugars and it is located in the cytoplasm. The simple monosaccharide, glucose, is considered to be the entry point to this pathway. The three carbon keto acid, pyruvate, is the final product of glycolysis. Glycolysis generates a small amount of energy in the form of the high energy compound ATP and high energy electrons, carried on organic electron carriers. These electrons are brought into the mitochondria. The citric acid cycle, or tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA), is the second pathway in the degradation of sugars. It is located in the matrix of the mitochondria. Pyruvate enters the TCA cycle by loss of CO2 to produce a key metabolic intermediate, acetyl-CoA. The remaining two carbons from pyruvate are lost as carbon dioxide in the TCA cycle. The energy released by these oxidations is stored on high-energy electron carriers. The electron transport chain consists of a number of proteins that exist as four distinct complexes in the inner membrane of the mitochondria. This pathway takes the electrons from the high energy electron carriers and deposits them on oxygen, generating water. This releases energy, which is used to produce a high concentration of protons, or a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. ATP synthase, which is final step in energy generation, utilizes the proton gradient to synthesize ATP. This multi-protein enzyme complex also resides in the inner mitochondrial matrix. Amino Acids are largely degraded by entry into the TCA cycle, followed by electron transport, and finally ATP synthesis from the proton gradient. Fats, in the form of triglycerides, are first broken down into glycerol and fatty acids. The fatty acids are oxidized by the beta-oxidation pathway, which coverts the carbon in the fatty acid to Acetyl-CoA. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle, this is again followed by electron transport, and then ATP synthesis. The location and connections between these degradative pathways is shown below: Metabolism Overview OVERVIEW OF METABOLISM. Click the radio buttons to outline in yellow the four key pathways: glycolysis, the TCA cycle, electron transport, and ATP synthesis and show the flow of carbon atoms, electrons, and protons through each pathway. Glucose that is brought into the cell via the glucose transporter can suffer two fates, oxidation or storage as glycogen. Oxidation occurs in glycolysis and the TCA cycle, releasing the carbon atoms in glucose as CO2. Note that oxygen is not used until the end of the electron transport chain. High energy electrons, symbolized as orange balls are carried on organic electron carriers to the electron transport chain. As these electrons move through the four complexes, protons are pumped from the mitochondrial matrix across the inner mitochondrial membrane. As these protons flow back through the membrane via ATP synthase, ATP is generated. Many of these pathways, with minor modifications, are reversed for synthetic purposes. For example, glucose can be synthesized from pyruvate, fatty acids from acetyl-CoA, and amino acids from intermediates in the TCA cycle.   Introduction to Metabolism In the previous units, you learned about the biomolecules that build up cells, the basic unit of life. You also learned about the structure of the cell and some of the processes that take place in it. Implicit in that knowledge was the notion of cells as continuously changing and dynamic entities: they grow, rebuild, repair, reproduce, and react to the external environment. Energy and carbon flow through the biosphere in a tightly coupled manner. The coupling between energy and carbon is accomplished within an organism through the process known as metabolism. Metabolism is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical conversions, each of which are catalyzed by an enzyme (protein catalyst). The compounds that are internal to the pathway are referred to as intermediates in the pathway. A number of pathways, such as those related to energy production, are essential to life and found in all cells. Although specialized cells may possess different pathways, there are common characteristics that apply to most pathways. These will be covered in the module  Common characteristics of metabolic pathways . In the modules dedicated to Energy and " ATP: The Universal Energy Carrier in Cells " you will learn, in more detail, how energy is transformed and transferred during metabolic reactions. Metabolic pathways are either anabolic or catabolic. Anabolic pathways involve the use of energy and simple organic building blocks to create more complex molecules. Catabolic pathways convert complex molecules to simpler ones, releasing energy for use by the organism. You will learn about the differences between catabolic and anabolic pathways  in a Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions ."   Energy and Carbon Flow in Metabolism The Common Pathway: Photosynthesis / Cell Respiration Cells in living organisms have two basic requirements: energy and carbon. Cells require a source of high-energy electrons to produce chemical energy and a source of carbon-containing molecules that can be used to synthesize proteins, fatty acids, and other molecules. The principle source of energy for all organisms on earth is the sun. This light energy is absorbed by photosynthetic organisms such as plants and algae and used to convert carbon dioxide (CO2) to glucose and oxygen during photosynthesis. The end result is that the energy from the sun has been stored in glucose, a small six-carbon carbohydrate. The oxygen and glucose are then available to other living organisms. Humans (and all other organisms, including plants) use glucose as food, and release the energy in glucose through a process called respiration. We usually think of respiration as the act of breathing preformed by many organisms to take in oxygen. However, in cells, respiration more specifically is the process of breaking down large molecules (nutrients, such as glucose) into simpler molecules including some of the energy released and stored as chemical energy in the molecule, adenosine triphosphate (ATP). There are two types of respiration: aerobic respiration requires oxygen and anaerobic respiration occurs without oxygen. A commonly known form of anaerobic respiration is fermentation, the process used to produce wines, distilled liquors, and other products. The diagram below illustrates this process of photosynthesis, fermentation, and aerobic respiration. During aerobic respiration, the carbon atoms in glucose combine with oxygen to produce CO2; the glucose is oxidized, releasing energy. The energy from the oxidation of glucose is stored in a small chemical called ATP for immediate use by the cell. ATP is used for almost all of the energy needs of the cell, from the synthesis of other complex molecules to doing mechanical work, such as running. You will learn more about these two pathways in the section about Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions. The source of almost all energy on the planet is the sun. This energy is harvested by plants and certain microbes and is stored in the simple sugar glucose, in a process called photosynthesis. All living organisms consume glucose and combine it with oxygen to produce energy and carbon dioxide. The energy released is temporarily stored by the synthesis of the high-energy compound ATP. The energy released when ATP is broken down to ADP can be used to power many biological functions, such as muscle contraction. Many organisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose without using oxygen. Fermentation produces less ATP then cellular respiration and can produce a variety of other end products. Yeasts, for example, produce ethanol (a useful biofuel) when they ferment. Many microorganisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose in the absence of oxygen (anaerobic growth); the most common form of this process is fermentation. In the absence of oxygen, yeasts still produce ATP by the partial oxidation of glucose, releasing smaller amounts of CO2. The remaining carbon atoms in the glucose are converted to ethanol. The energy stored in ethanol can be used as fuel for our internal combustion engines. Humans also undergo anaerobic metabolism during vigorous exercise, but in humans, lactic acid is produced instead of ethanol. When sufficient oxygen becomes available, the carbon atoms in lactate are converted to CO2. Other organisms that perform fermentation produce a variety of other end products. Fermentation is discussed as an alternative pathway in the module on Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration. Regulation of Pathways All metabolic pathways are regulated such that they are only active when the products of the pathway are required by the cell. In this way, the organism is able to optimize the use of its carbon and energy resources. The Glycolysis Pathway The first part of the process of respiration is called glycolysis. It consists basically of the breakdown of glucose into a smaller compound called pyruvate. Pyruvate can then go on to either cellular respiration or fermentation, depending on the availability of oxygen. Glycolysis will occur if the cell requires energy. The glycolysis pathway is regulated to turn glycolysis on or off, depending on the energy needs of the cell. There would be two dire consequences if the energy that is stored in food were to be released immediately after consumption. First, the organism would run out of energy quickly and would therefore have to consume food all the time, which is not possible for most organisms, especially mammals, which need to sleep. Secondly, the heat that would be released by the production of energy would raise the temperature of the organism to intolerable levels. Misregulation of metabolic pathways can cause disease. For example, in diabetes, the metabolism of glucose is incorrectly regulated. Cells in living organisms have two basic requirements: energy and carbon. Cells require a source of high-energy electrons to produce chemical energy and a source of carbon-containing molecules that can be used to synthesize proteins, fatty acids, and other molecules. The principle source of energy for all organisms on earth is the sun. This light energy is absorbed by photosynthetic organisms such as plants and algae and used to convert carbon dioxide (CO2) to glucose and oxygen during photosynthesis. The end result is that the energy from the sun has been stored in glucose, a small six-carbon carbohydrate. The oxygen and glucose are then available to other living organisms. Humans (and all other organisms, including plants) use glucose as food, and release the energy in glucose through a process called respiration. We usually think of respiration as the act of breathing preformed by many organisms to take in oxygen. However, in cells, respiration more specifically is the process of breaking down large molecules (nutrients, such as glucose) into simpler molecules including some of the energy released and stored as chemical energy in the molecule, adenosine triphosphate (ATP). There are two types of respiration: aerobic respiration requires oxygen and anaerobic respiration occurs without oxygen. A commonly known form of anaerobic respiration is fermentation, the process used to produce wines, distilled liquors, and other products. The diagram below illustrates this process of photosynthesis, fermentation, and aerobic respiration. During aerobic respiration, the carbon atoms in glucose combine with oxygen to produce CO2; the glucose is oxidized, releasing energy. The energy from the oxidation of glucose is stored in a small chemical called ATP for immediate use by the cell. ATP is used for almost all of the energy needs of the cell, from the synthesis of other complex molecules to doing mechanical work, such as running. You will learn more about these two pathways in the section about Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions. The source of almost all energy on the planet is the sun. This energy is harvested by plants and certain microbes and is stored in the simple sugar glucose, in a process called photosynthesis. All living organisms consume glucose and combine it with oxygen to produce energy and carbon dioxide. The energy released is temporarily stored by the synthesis of the high-energy compound ATP. The energy released when ATP is broken down to ADP can be used to power many biological functions, such as muscle contraction. Many organisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose without using oxygen. Fermentation produces less ATP then cellular respiration and can produce a variety of other end products. Yeasts, for example, produce ethanol (a useful biofuel) when they ferment. Many microorganisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose in the absence of oxygen (anaerobic growth); the most common form of this process is fermentation. In the absence of oxygen, yeasts still produce ATP by the partial oxidation of glucose, releasing smaller amounts of CO2. The remaining carbon atoms in the glucose are converted to ethanol. The energy stored in ethanol can be used as fuel for our internal combustion engines. Humans also undergo anaerobic metabolism during vigorous exercise, but in humans, lactic acid is produced instead of ethanol. When sufficient oxygen becomes available, the carbon atoms in lactate are converted to CO2. Other organisms that perform fermentation produce a variety of other end products. Fermentation is discussed as an alternative pathway in the module on Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration. All metabolic pathways are regulated such that they are only active when the products of the pathway are required by the cell. In this way, the organism is able to optimize the use of its carbon and energy resources. The Glycolysis Pathway The first part of the process of respiration is called glycolysis. It consists basically of the breakdown of glucose into a smaller compound called pyruvate. Pyruvate can then go on to either cellular respiration or fermentation, depending on the availability of oxygen. Glycolysis will occur if the cell requires energy. The glycolysis pathway is regulated to turn glycolysis on or off, depending on the energy needs of the cell. There would be two dire consequences if the energy that is stored in food were to be released immediately after consumption. First, the organism would run out of energy quickly and would therefore have to consume food all the time, which is not possible for most organisms, especially mammals, which need to sleep. Secondly, the heat that would be released by the production of energy would raise the temperature of the organism to intolerable levels. Misregulation of metabolic pathways can cause disease. For example, in diabetes, the metabolism of glucose is incorrectly regulated.   Regulation of Pathways All metabolic pathways are regulated such that they are only active when the products of the pathway are required by the cell. In this way the organism is able to optimize the use of its carbon and energy resources. The Glycolysis Pathway The glycolysis pathway is regulated to turn glycolysis on or off, depending on the energy needs of the cell. There would be two dire consequences if the energy that is stored in food were to be released immediately after consumption. First, the organism would run out of energy quickly and have have to consume food all of the time, which isnt possible for most organisms, especially mammals who need to sleep. Secondly, the heat that would be released by the production of energy would raise the temperature of the organism to intolerable levels. Mis-regulation of metabolic pathways can cause disease, such as in diabetes where the metabolism of glucose is incorrectly regulated.   Introduction to Metabolism In the previous units, you learned about the biomolecules that build up cells, the basic unit of life. You also learned about the structure of the cell and some of the processes that take place in it. Implicit in that knowledge was the notion of cells as continuously changing and dynamic entities: they grow, rebuild, repair, reproduce, and react to the external environment. Energy and carbon flow through the biosphere in a tightly coupled manner. The coupling between energy and carbon is accomplished within an organism through the process known as metabolism. Metabolism is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical conversions, each of which are catalyzed by an enzyme (protein catalyst). The compounds that are internal to the pathway are referred to as intermediates in the pathway. A number of pathways, such as those related to energy production, are essential to life and found in all cells. Although specialized cells may possess different pathways, there are common characteristics that apply to most pathways. These will be covered in the module  Common characteristics of metabolic pathways . In the modules dedicated to Energy and " ATP: The Universal Energy Carrier in Cells " you will learn, in more detail, how energy is transformed and transferred during metabolic reactions. Metabolic pathways are either anabolic or catabolic. Anabolic pathways involve the use of energy and simple organic building blocks to create more complex molecules. Catabolic pathways convert complex molecules to simpler ones, releasing energy for use by the organism. You will learn about the differences between catabolic and anabolic pathways  in a Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions ." The Common Pathway: Photosynthesis / Cell Respiration The principle source of energy for all organisms on earth is the sun. This energy is absorbed by photosynthetic organisms, such as plants and algae and used to convert carbon dioxide (CO2) to glucose and oxygen during photosynthesis. The end result is that the energy from the sun has been stored in glucose, a small six carbon carbohydrate. The oxygen and glucose are available to other living organisms. Humans (and all other organisms, including plants) use glucose as food, and release the energy in glucose through a process called respiration. The figure below illustrates this process of photosynthesis and respiration. During this process the carbon atoms in glucose combine with oxygen to produce CO2; the glucose is oxidized, releasing energy. The energy from the oxidation of glucose is stored in a small chemical called ATP (adenosine triphosphate) for immediate use by the cell. ATP is used for almost all of the energy needs of the cell, from the synthesis of other complex molecules to doing mechanical work, such as running. You will learn more of these two pathways in  Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions. The source of almost all energy on the planet is the sun. This energy is harvested by plants and certain microbes and stored in the simple sugar glucose, in a process called photosynthesis. All living organisms consume glucose and combine it with oxygen to produce energy and carbon dioxide. The energy released is temporarily stored by the synthesis of a high energy compound called ATP. The energy released when ATP is broken down to ADP can be used to power many biological functions, such as muscle contraction. Many organisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose without using oxygen. Fermentation produces less ATP then cellular respiration and can produce a variety of other end products. Yeast, for example, produce ethanol (a useful biofuel) when they ferment. Many microorganisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose in the absence of oxygen (anerobic growth), the most common form of this process is fermentation. In the absence of oxygen, yeast still produce ATP by the partial oxidation of glucose, releasing smaller amounts of CO2. The remaining carbon atoms in glucose are converted to ethanol. The energy stored in ethanol can be used as a fuel for our internal combustion engines. Humans also undergo anaerobic metabolism during vigorous exercise, however lactic acid is produced instead of ethanol. When sufficient oxygen becomes available, the carbon atoms in lactate are converted to CO2. Other organisms that perform fermentation produce a variety of other end products. Alternative Pathways such as fermentation are addressed in a separate module. Regulation of Pathways All metabolic pathways are regulated such that they are only active when the products of the pathway are required by the cell. In this way the organism is able to optimize the use of its carbon and energy resources. The Glycolysis Pathway: The glycolysis pathway is regulated to turn glycolysis on or off, depending on the energy needs of the cell. There would be two dire consequences if the energy that is stored in food were to be released immediately after consumption. First, the organism would run out of energy quickly and have have to consume food all of the time, which isnt possible for most organisms, especially mammals who need to sleep. Secondly, the heat that would be released by the production of energy would raise the temperature of the organism to intolerable levels. Mis-regulation of metabolic pathways can cause disease, such as in diabetes where the metabolism of glucose is incorrectly regulated. The principle source of energy for all organisms on earth is the sun. This energy is absorbed by photosynthetic organisms, such as plants and algae and used to convert carbon dioxide (CO2) to glucose and oxygen during photosynthesis. The end result is that the energy from the sun has been stored in glucose, a small six carbon carbohydrate. The oxygen and glucose are available to other living organisms. Humans (and all other organisms, including plants) use glucose as food, and release the energy in glucose through a process called respiration. The figure below illustrates this process of photosynthesis and respiration. During this process the carbon atoms in glucose combine with oxygen to produce CO2; the glucose is oxidized, releasing energy. The energy from the oxidation of glucose is stored in a small chemical called ATP (adenosine triphosphate) for immediate use by the cell. ATP is used for almost all of the energy needs of the cell, from the synthesis of other complex molecules to doing mechanical work, such as running. You will learn more of these two pathways in  Anabolic and Catabolic Reactions. The source of almost all energy on the planet is the sun. This energy is harvested by plants and certain microbes and stored in the simple sugar glucose, in a process called photosynthesis. All living organisms consume glucose and combine it with oxygen to produce energy and carbon dioxide. The energy released is temporarily stored by the synthesis of a high energy compound called ATP. The energy released when ATP is broken down to ADP can be used to power many biological functions, such as muscle contraction. Many organisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose without using oxygen. Fermentation produces less ATP then cellular respiration and can produce a variety of other end products. Yeast, for example, produce ethanol (a useful biofuel) when they ferment. Many microorganisms, such as yeast, can utilize the energy stored in glucose in the absence of oxygen (anerobic growth), the most common form of this process is fermentation. In the absence of oxygen, yeast still produce ATP by the partial oxidation of glucose, releasing smaller amounts of CO2. The remaining carbon atoms in glucose are converted to ethanol. The energy stored in ethanol can be used as a fuel for our internal combustion engines. Humans also undergo anaerobic metabolism during vigorous exercise, however lactic acid is produced instead of ethanol. When sufficient oxygen becomes available, the carbon atoms in lactate are converted to CO2. Other organisms that perform fermentation produce a variety of other end products. Alternative Pathways such as fermentation are addressed in a separate module. All metabolic pathways are regulated such that they are only active when the products of the pathway are required by the cell. In this way the organism is able to optimize the use of its carbon and energy resources. The Glycolysis Pathway: The glycolysis pathway is regulated to turn glycolysis on or off, depending on the energy needs of the cell. There would be two dire consequences if the energy that is stored in food were to be released immediately after consumption. First, the organism would run out of energy quickly and have have to consume food all of the time, which isnt possible for most organisms, especially mammals who need to sleep. Secondly, the heat that would be released by the production of energy would raise the temperature of the organism to intolerable levels. Mis-regulation of metabolic pathways can cause disease, such as in diabetes where the metabolism of glucose is incorrectly regulated.   Application Spotlight: Alternative Pathways Metabolic pathways constitute a complex network of chemical reactions, with some pathways functioning like central freeways to which many other pathways connect. Pathways related to the harvesting of energy (chemical or solar) and biosynthesis of the major cellular components are conserved in many types of cells and organisms. Many organisms use energy harvesting pathways other than photosynthesis and cellular respiration. Bacteria, in particular, have an astonishing array of metabolic options. The variety of metabolic options in the bacterial domain helps scientists classify evolutionary relationships between these organisms. Fermentation is Anaerobic Many of the metabolic options do not require oxygen and are called anaerobic (an- means without and aerobic refers to oxygen). Fermentation breaks down organic molecules and stores energy as ATP. Although fermentation is the only ATP-producing pathway for some microbes, it is also commonly used by many organisms as a special-purpose pathway. For example, yeasts that decompose fruit can switch between aerobic cellular respiration (used when oxygen is abundant) to a form of fermentation that produces ethanol (used when oxygen is depleted). This allows yeast to continue to produce ATP even in rotten, oxygen-poor fruit. Some human tissues also use fermentation under certain conditions. Sprinters and weightlifters have well-developed fast-twitch muscles. Fast-twitch fibers have fewer mitochondria and are not able to renew their supply of oxygen rapidly. Therefore, they have relatively poor endurance. However, fast-twitch fibers excel at producing strong contractions very quickly. They do this using the ATP created through a form of fermentation. This pathway does not break sugar all the way down to CO2, but stops at an intermediate (lactic acid). Lactic Acid Fermentation is a Partial Breakdown of Glucose Fermentation reactions do not require oxygen, and they do not break all glucose down fully to carbon dioxide. Instead, they end with organic molecules that still contain considerable chemical potential energy. Such pathways produce only a tiny amount of ATP compared to aerobic cellular respiration. Oxygen is not used in fermentation, and although some CO2 may be produced, glucose is not fully broken down. Instead, fermentation ends with complex products (lactate, ethanol) that still contain quite a bit of chemical potential energy. The breakdown process is incomplete, and relatively little energy is available to drive the production of ATP. In addition, the byproducts of fermentation can be toxic. For example, a buildup of lactic acid may cause stiffness in an overworked muscle. Products of Fermentation Fermentation is a very common metabolic pathway in microorganisms such as bacteria and yeast, resulting in alcoholic beverages, fermented milk products, and bread. In fermentation of alcoholic beverages, yeast is added to sugary juices or malt syrups. The container is sealed to exclude oxygen. Under these conditions, the yeast switches to fermentation and generates ethanol, the intoxicating active ingredient of alcoholic beverages. Eventually, however, ethanol concentrations reach a point where the yeasts themselves are inhibited and fermentation grinds to a halt. In this way, wine and beer are naturally limited in their alcohol content. High-alcohol liquors can be produced only by distillation, a chemical process that concentrates the alcohol. Fermentation tank Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. However, cellular respiration is aerobic, while fermentation is anaerobic. Cellular respiration produces more ATP. Products of fermentation Fermentation can produce a variety of end products including: a) cheese, b) yogurt, c) soy sauce, d) vinegar, e) acetone (nail polish remover), and f) chocolate. The Process of Fermentation Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. However, cellular respiration is aerobic while fermentation is anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient than anaerobic respiration. Cellular respiration produces as much as 15 times more ATP than fermentation. The table below shows the ATP yield from one glucose molecule for both processes. *Some bacteria can carry out forms of respiration that do not require oxygen. Characteristic Cellular Respiration Fermentation Energy source organic molecules organic molecules ATP production 36-38 ATP produced 2 ATP produced Oxygen required (aerobic)* not required (anaerobic) End products CO2 and H2O variety of end products including: alcohols, acids, acetone Many of the metabolic options do not require oxygen and are called anaerobic (an- means without and aerobic refers to oxygen). Fermentation breaks down organic molecules and stores energy as ATP. Although fermentation is the only ATP-producing pathway for some microbes, it is also commonly used by many organisms as a special-purpose pathway. For example, yeasts that decompose fruit can switch between aerobic cellular respiration (used when oxygen is abundant) to a form of fermentation that produces ethanol (used when oxygen is depleted). This allows yeast to continue to produce ATP even in rotten, oxygen-poor fruit. Some human tissues also use fermentation under certain conditions. Sprinters and weightlifters have well-developed fast-twitch muscles. Fast-twitch fibers have fewer mitochondria and are not able to renew their supply of oxygen rapidly. Therefore, they have relatively poor endurance. However, fast-twitch fibers excel at producing strong contractions very quickly. They do this using the ATP created through a form of fermentation. This pathway does not break sugar all the way down to CO2, but stops at an intermediate (lactic acid). Lactic Acid Fermentation is a Partial Breakdown of Glucose Fermentation reactions do not require oxygen, and they do not break all glucose down fully to carbon dioxide. Instead, they end with organic molecules that still contain considerable chemical potential energy. Such pathways produce only a tiny amount of ATP compared to aerobic cellular respiration. Oxygen is not used in fermentation, and although some CO2 may be produced, glucose is not fully broken down. Instead, fermentation ends with complex products (lactate, ethanol) that still contain quite a bit of chemical potential energy. The breakdown process is incomplete, and relatively little energy is available to drive the production of ATP. In addition, the byproducts of fermentation can be toxic. For example, a buildup of lactic acid may cause stiffness in an overworked muscle. Fermentation is a very common metabolic pathway in microorganisms such as bacteria and yeast, resulting in alcoholic beverages, fermented milk products, and bread. In fermentation of alcoholic beverages, yeast is added to sugary juices or malt syrups. The container is sealed to exclude oxygen. Under these conditions, the yeast switches to fermentation and generates ethanol, the intoxicating active ingredient of alcoholic beverages. Eventually, however, ethanol concentrations reach a point where the yeasts themselves are inhibited and fermentation grinds to a halt. In this way, wine and beer are naturally limited in their alcohol content. High-alcohol liquors can be produced only by distillation, a chemical process that concentrates the alcohol. Fermentation tank Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. However, cellular respiration is aerobic, while fermentation is anaerobic. Cellular respiration produces more ATP. Products of fermentation Fermentation can produce a variety of end products including: a) cheese, b) yogurt, c) soy sauce, d) vinegar, e) acetone (nail polish remover), and f) chocolate. Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. However, cellular respiration is aerobic while fermentation is anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient than anaerobic respiration. Cellular respiration produces as much as 15 times more ATP than fermentation. The table below shows the ATP yield from one glucose molecule for both processes. *Some bacteria can carry out forms of respiration that do not require oxygen. Characteristic Cellular Respiration Fermentation Energy source organic molecules organic molecules ATP production 36-38 ATP produced 2 ATP produced Oxygen required (aerobic)* not required (anaerobic) End products CO2 and H2O variety of end products including: alcohols, acids, acetone   Application Spotlight: Alternative Pathways Metabolic pathways constitute a complex network of chemical reactions, with some pathways functioning like central freeways to which many other pathways connect. Pathways related to the harvesting of energy (chemical or solar) and biosynthesis of the major cellular components are conserved in many types of cells and organisms. Many organisms use energy harvesting pathways other than photosynthesis and cellular respiration. Bacteria, in particular, have an astonishing array of metabolic options. The variety of metabolic options in the bacterial domain helps scientists classify evolutionary relationships between these organisms. Fermentation is Anaerobic Many of the metabolic options do not require oxygen and are called anaerobic (an- means without and aerobic refers to oxygen). Fermentation breaks down organic molecules and stores energy as ATP. Although fermentation is the only ATP-producing pathway for some microbes, it is also commonly used by many organisms as a special-purpose pathway. For example, yeasts that decompose fruit can switch between aerobic cellular respiration (used when oxygen is abundant) to a form of fermentation that produces ethanol (used when oxygen is depleted). This allows yeast to continue to produce ATP even in rotten, oxygen-poor fruit. Some human tissues also use fermentation under certain conditions. Sprinters and weightlifters have well-developed fast-twitch muscles. Fast-twitch fibers have fewer mitochondria and are not able to renew their supply of oxygen rapidly. Therefore, they have relatively poor endurance. However, fast-twitch fibers excel at producing strong contractions very quickly. They do this using the ATP created through a form of fermentation. This pathway does not break sugar all the way down to CO2, but stops at an intermediate (lactic acid). Lactic Acid Fermentation is a Partial Breakdown of Glucose Fermentation reactions do not require oxygen, and they do not break all glucose down fully to carbon dioxide. Instead, they end with organic molecules that still contain considerable chemical potential energy. Such pathways produce only a tiny amount of ATP compared to aerobic cellular respiration. Oxygen is not used in fermentation, and although some CO2 may be produced, glucose is not fully broken down. Instead, fermentation ends with complex products (lactate, ethanol) that still contain quite a bit of chemical potential energy. The breakdown process is incomplete, and relatively little energy is available to drive the production of ATP. In addition, the byproducts of fermentation can be toxic. For example, a buildup of lactic acid may cause stiffness in an overworked muscle. Products of Fermentation Fermentation is a very common metabolic pathway in microorganisms such as bacteria and yeast, resulting in alcoholic beverages, fermented milk products, and bread. In fermentation of alcoholic beverages, yeast is added to sugary juices or malt syrups. The container is sealed to exclude oxygen. Under these conditions, the yeast switches to fermentation and generates ethanol, the intoxicating active ingredient of alcoholic beverages. Eventually, however, ethanol concentrations reach a point where the yeasts themselves are inhibited and fermentation grinds to a halt. In this way, wine and beer are naturally limited in their alcohol content. High-alcohol liquors can be produced only by distillation, a chemical process that concentrates the alcohol. Fermentation tank Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. However, cellular respiration is aerobic, while fermentation is anaerobic. Cellular respiration produces more ATP. Products of fermentation Fermentation can produce a variety of end products including: a) cheese, b) yogurt, c) soy sauce, d) vinegar, e) acetone (nail polish remover), and f) chocolate. The Process of Fermentation Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. However, cellular respiration is aerobic while fermentation is anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient than anaerobic respiration. Cellular respiration produces as much as 15 times more ATP than fermentation. The table below shows the ATP yield from one glucose molecule for both processes. *Some bacteria can carry out forms of respiration that do not require oxygen. Characteristic Cellular Respiration Fermentation Energy source organic molecules organic molecules ATP production 36-38 ATP produced 2 ATP produced Oxygen required (aerobic)* not required (anaerobic) End products CO2 and H2O variety of end products including: alcohols, acids, acetone Many of the metabolic options do not require oxygen and are called anaerobic (an- means without and aerobic refers to oxygen). Fermentation breaks down organic molecules and stores energy as ATP. Although fermentation is the only ATP-producing pathway for some microbes, it is also commonly used by many organisms as a special-purpose pathway. For example, yeasts that decompose fruit can switch between aerobic cellular respiration (used when oxygen is abundant) to a form of fermentation that produces ethanol (used when oxygen is depleted). This allows yeast to continue to produce ATP even in rotten, oxygen-poor fruit. Some human tissues also use fermentation under certain conditions. Sprinters and weightlifters have well-developed fast-twitch muscles. Fast-twitch fibers have fewer mitochondria and are not able to renew their supply of oxygen rapidly. Therefore, they have relatively poor endurance. However, fast-twitch fibers excel at producing strong contractions very quickly. They do this using the ATP created through a form of fermentation. This pathway does not break sugar all the way down to CO2, but stops at an intermediate (lactic acid). Lactic Acid Fermentation is a Partial Breakdown of Glucose Fermentation reactions do not require oxygen, and they do not break all glucose down fully to carbon dioxide. Instead, they end with organic molecules that still contain considerable chemical potential energy. Such pathways produce only a tiny amount of ATP compared to aerobic cellular respiration. Oxygen is not used in fermentation, and although some CO2 may be produced, glucose is not fully broken down. Instead, fermentation ends with complex products (lactate, ethanol) that still contain quite a bit of chemical potential energy. The breakdown process is incomplete, and relatively little energy is available to drive the production of ATP. In addition, the byproducts of fermentation can be toxic. For example, a buildup of lactic acid may cause stiffness in an overworked muscle. Fermentation is a very common metabolic pathway in microorganisms such as bacteria and yeast, resulting in alcoholic beverages, fermented milk products, and bread. In fermentation of alcoholic beverages, yeast is added to sugary juices or malt syrups. The container is sealed to exclude oxygen. Under these conditions, the yeast switches to fermentation and generates ethanol, the intoxicating active ingredient of alcoholic beverages. Eventually, however, ethanol concentrations reach a point where the yeasts themselves are inhibited and fermentation grinds to a halt. In this way, wine and beer are naturally limited in their alcohol content. High-alcohol liquors can be produced only by distillation, a chemical process that concentrates the alcohol. Fermentation tank Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. However, cellular respiration is aerobic, while fermentation is anaerobic. Cellular respiration produces more ATP. Products of fermentation Fermentation can produce a variety of end products including: a) cheese, b) yogurt, c) soy sauce, d) vinegar, e) acetone (nail polish remover), and f) chocolate. Cellular respiration and fermentation both break down organic molecules to build ATP. However, cellular respiration is aerobic while fermentation is anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient than anaerobic respiration. Cellular respiration produces as much as 15 times more ATP than fermentation. The table below shows the ATP yield from one glucose molecule for both processes. *Some bacteria can carry out forms of respiration that do not require oxygen. Characteristic Cellular Respiration Fermentation Energy source organic molecules organic molecules ATP production 36-38 ATP produced 2 ATP produced Oxygen required (aerobic)* not required (anaerobic) End products CO2 and H2O variety of end products including: alcohols, acids, acetone   Glycolysis Glycolysis is the first pathway that occurs in the metabolism of carbohydrates. This pathway occurs in the cytosol of all cells, i.e. it is a highly conserved and ubiquitous pathway. Although many different disaccharides are broken down into monosaccharides and enter the glycolysis, we will focus on how glucose is metabolized in this section. The entry points of other sugars will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. An overall summary of glycolysis is depicted below: An overview of glycolysis. The intermediates in the pathway are shown near the top of the figure, along with a summary of energy consumption and production by the pathway. The molecular structure of these compounds can be seen in the learn-by-doing exercise below. ADP and NAD+ have been omitted in this diagram for clarity. The lower part of the figure shows the change in the carbon skeleton in the pathway. The step following F-1,6-P splits the 6 carbon fructose into two three carbon compounds, both of which proceed down the pathway to form pyruvate. The key regulatory step, the enzyme phosphofructose kinase, is indicated as PFK. Key features of Glycolysis: Glucose, a six carbon hexose, is the input compound. Pyruvate, a three carbon keto-acid is the output. There is no loss of carbon in glycolysis, so two pyruvates are produced/glucose. Pyruvate is further oxidized in the TCA cycle. Two ATP molecules are produced/glucose. Note that the energy content of two ATP molecules is required to initiate the pathway. Four ATP (2/pyruvate) are produced later in the pathway. Consequently, the net yield is two ATP. Two NADH molecules are produced. A single oxidation step produces one molecule of NADH/pyruvate. The energy stored in NADH is extracted during electron transport. The key regulatory step is the addition of the second phosphate to fructose, by the enzyme phosphofructose kinase Capture of Glucose by the Cell Glucose from the outside of the cell is transported across the cell membrane by a multi-subunit protein called the glucose transporter. This enzyme catalyzes the diffusion of glucose across the membrane without the input of energy. Consequently, spontaneous flow of glucose into the cell can only occur if the concentration of glucose is lower in the cell than outside the cell. The Gibbs free energy for the transport of glucose is: G = RT ln [ glucose ] IN [ glucose ] OUT Although this expression for the Gibbs free energy appears different than previous expressions, it is really the same equation. The "product" of the reaction is glucose inside the cell and the "reactant" is glucose outside the cell. The difference in standard free energy, Go, is zero because the reactants and products are the same compound, differing only in their location. If the concentration of glucose outside the cell is higher than the concentration inside the cell, then the Gibbs free energy is negative (the ln of a number less than one is negative) and glucose will spontaneously enter the cell. If the glucose concentration in both compartments are the same, then =0 and there is no net movement of glucose across the membrane. If the concentration of glucose inside the cell exceeds the concentration outside then >0 and the reverse reaction, the net movement of glucose out of the cell, will be spontaneous. The levels of glucose in the blood vary considerably at times. We will discuss how glucose levels are regulated in the section on integrated metabolism. The focus here is to understand how the entry of glucose into the cell is spontaneous, even when the levels of glucose in the blood can drop to low values. How is it possible to maintain a negative Gibbs free energy for glucose transport into the cell, even if there are low levels of glucose outside the cell? Use the tutorial below to discover how glucose spontaneously enters the cell, even if the intracelluar concentration exceeds the concentration outside the cell. Glucose Transporter Instructions: Compare the behavior of the two simulations to see how the Hexose Kinase molecule changes the concentration of glucose inside and outside of the cell. Glucose Transporter Moving Glucose into Cell The Glucose molecules in this example are too large to freely pass through the membrane. This Glucose Transporter allows them through the specific channel through the protein. Hexose Kinase converting Glucose to Glucose-6P The Hexose Kinase molecule binds with the glucose to make glucose 6-P which is too large to return through the transporter. Glycolysis The following learn-by-doing activity allows you to investigate the chemical and energetic changes that occur in glycolysis. Once you open up the page, explore it using the embedded questions to prepare you for the self-assessment at the end of this module. As you move through the glycolysis pathway, determine which steps become spontaneous by direct coupling, which by indirect coupling, and how energy is captured from steps that release large amounts of energy. Energy Changes in Glycolysis Instructions: The left panel shows the energy changes that occur for each of the ten steps in glycolysis in the absence of coupling. The right panel shows the actual energy changes during the normal operation of glycolysis. These energy changes include contributions from both direct and indirect coupling. Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway. You may also explore this activity in a separate larger window Anaerobic Glycolysis Under anaerobic (oxygen limited) conditions, which occurs in the muscle tissue during vigorous activity, the NADH produced in glycolysis cannot be reoxidized to NAD+ by electron transport because there is insufficient oxygen to accept electrons. Under these conditions, the cell runs out of NAD+ and glycolysis will halt and the cell can no longer produce ATP. The levels of NAD+ can be restored by using pyruvate as the electron acceptor. In mammals, lactate is the product of this reaction. In yeast, it is alcohol and the process of anaerobic glycolysis is referred to as fermentation. The reduction of pyruvate will oxidize NADH to NAD+, allowing glycolysis to resume. Anaerobic metabolism. Pyruvate can serve as the electron acceptor for NADH. The reduction of pyruvate to lactate in mammals, or ethanol in yeast, regenerates the NAD+ required for glycolysis to operate. The lactate that is produced by active muscle tissue is transported to the liver. When oxygen becomes available, the lactate is reoxidized to pyruvate and it can then be used for the synthesis of glucose. Glycolysis is the first pathway that occurs in the metabolism of carbohydrates. This pathway occurs in the cytosol of all cells, i.e. it is a highly conserved and ubiquitous pathway. Although many different disaccharides are broken down into monosaccharides and enter the glycolysis, we will focus on how glucose is metabolized in this section. The entry points of other sugars will be discussed in the module on integrated metabolism. An overall summary of glycolysis is depicted below: An overview of glycolysis. The intermediates in the pathway are shown near the top of the figure, along with a summary of energy consumption and production by the pathway. The molecular structure of these compounds can be seen in the learn-by-doing exercise below. ADP and NAD+ have been omitted in this diagram for clarity. The lower part of the figure shows the change in the carbon skeleton in the pathway. The step following F-1,6-P splits the 6 carbon fructose into two three carbon compounds, both of which proceed down the pathway to form pyruvate. The key regulatory step, the enzyme phosphofructose kinase, is indicated as PFK. Key features of Glycolysis: Glucose, a six carbon hexose, is the input compound. Pyruvate, a three carbon keto-acid is the output. There is no loss of carbon in glycolysis, so two pyruvates are produced/glucose. Pyruvate is further oxidized in the TCA cycle. Two ATP molecules are produced/glucose. Note that the energy content of two ATP molecules is required to initiate the pathway. Four ATP (2/pyruvate) are produced later in the pathway. Consequently, the net yield is two ATP. Two NADH molecules are produced. A single oxidation step produces one molecule of NADH/pyruvate. The energy stored in NADH is extracted during electron transport. The key regulatory step is the addition of the second phosphate to fructose, by the enzyme phosphofructose kinase Glucose from the outside of the cell is transported across the cell membrane by a multi-subunit protein called the glucose transporter. This enzyme catalyzes the diffusion of glucose across the membrane without the input of energy. Consequently, spontaneous flow of glucose into the cell can only occur if the concentration of glucose is lower in the cell than outside the cell. The Gibbs free energy for the transport of glucose is: G = RT ln [ glucose ] IN [ glucose ] OUT Although this expression for the Gibbs free energy appears different than previous expressions, it is really the same equation. The "product" of the reaction is glucose inside the cell and the "reactant" is glucose outside the cell. The difference in standard free energy, Go, is zero because the reactants and products are the same compound, differing only in their location. If the concentration of glucose outside the cell is higher than the concentration inside the cell, then the Gibbs free energy is negative (the ln of a number less than one is negative) and glucose will spontaneously enter the cell. If the glucose concentration in both compartments are the same, then =0 and there is no net movement of glucose across the membrane. If the concentration of glucose inside the cell exceeds the concentration outside then >0 and the reverse reaction, the net movement of glucose out of the cell, will be spontaneous. The levels of glucose in the blood vary considerably at times. We will discuss how glucose levels are regulated in the section on integrated metabolism. The focus here is to understand how the entry of glucose into the cell is spontaneous, even when the levels of glucose in the blood can drop to low values. How is it possible to maintain a negative Gibbs free energy for glucose transport into the cell, even if there are low levels of glucose outside the cell? Use the tutorial below to discover how glucose spontaneously enters the cell, even if the intracelluar concentration exceeds the concentration outside the cell. Glucose Transporter Instructions: Compare the behavior of the two simulations to see how the Hexose Kinase molecule changes the concentration of glucose inside and outside of the cell. Glucose Transporter Moving Glucose into Cell The Glucose molecules in this example are too large to freely pass through the membrane. This Glucose Transporter allows them through the specific channel through the protein. Hexose Kinase converting Glucose to Glucose-6P The Hexose Kinase molecule binds with the glucose to make glucose 6-P which is too large to return through the transporter. The following learn-by-doing activity allows you to investigate the chemical and energetic changes that occur in glycolysis. Once you open up the page, explore it using the embedded questions to prepare you for the self-assessment at the end of this module. As you move through the glycolysis pathway, determine which steps become spontaneous by direct coupling, which by indirect coupling, and how energy is captured from steps that release large amounts of energy. Energy Changes in Glycolysis Instructions: The left panel shows the energy changes that occur for each of the ten steps in glycolysis in the absence of coupling. The right panel shows the actual energy changes during the normal operation of glycolysis. These energy changes include contributions from both direct and indirect coupling. Click on any of the red labeled steps on the left to see the details of that step in the glycolysis pathway. You may also explore this activity in a separate larger window Under anaerobic (oxygen limited) conditions, which occurs in the muscle tissue during vigorous activity, the NADH produced in glycolysis cannot be reoxidized to NAD+ by electron transport because there is insufficient oxygen to accept electrons. Under these conditions, the cell runs out of NAD+ and glycolysis will halt and the cell can no longer produce ATP. The levels of NAD+ can be restored by using pyruvate as the electron acceptor. In mammals, lactate is the product of this reaction. In yeast, it is alcohol and the process of anaerobic glycolysis is referred to as fermentation. The reduction of pyruvate will oxidize NADH to NAD+, allowing glycolysis to resume. Anaerobic metabolism. Pyruvate can serve as the electron acceptor for NADH. The reduction of pyruvate to lactate in mammals, or ethanol in yeast, regenerates the NAD+ required for glycolysis to operate. The lactate that is produced by active muscle tissue is transported to the liver. When oxygen becomes available, the lactate is reoxidized to pyruvate and it can then be used for the synthesis of glucose.   Cellular Respiration: A Central Catabolic Pathway All living things require energy to survive. For humans, and many other organisms, that energy is generated by the complex interaction of the cellular respiration and photosynthetic pathways. Without these pathways, life as we know it would cease to exist. Illustration by Mikael Hggstrm (Wikipedia) released into public domain. In the process of cellular respiration, energy that is stored in the food that we eat is converted to the bodys energy module, ATP. During the cellular respiration reaction, food (organic molecules consisting of carbohydrates (e.g., glucose), fats, and proteins) is broken down to carbon dioxide (CO2) and water (H2O); in the process, ATP is released. This catabolic reaction is expressed as follows: Organic molecule + 6O2 6CO2 + 6H2O + energy (ATP and heat) Organic molecules and oxygen (O2) are inputs to the cellular respiration pathway and produce (i.e., output) carbon dioxide (CO2), water (H2O), and energy comprising ATP and heat. Note that cellular respiration is an aerobic process which means that oxygen (O2) is required. As the reaction proceeds, high energy electrons and hydrogen ions (H+) are transferred from the organic molecule to the O2. Because the rapid transfer of the electrons and H+ would generate an unusable form of energy (heat), the transfer utilizes enzyme carriers called NAD+ and FAD+. Use of these carriers allows for the controlled transfer of the electrons and H+ and the most efficient production of ATP. Electron Carriers: NAD+ and FADH+ Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FADH+) are enzymes found in most cells of the body. These molecules have the ability to accept and donate electrons resulting in the ability to shuttle (i.e., transport) electrons around the cell. NAD+ and FADH+ accept electrons and H+ during the early stages of the cellular respiration process. When they have accepted the electrons and H+, they become: NAD+ + 2e- + 2H+ NADH + H+ FADH+ + 2e- + 2H+ FADH2 + H+ In the later stage of cellular respiration, the NADH and FADH2 donate the electrons and H+ they are carrying to regenerate the NAD+ and FADH+ molecules. These molecules are universal electron carriers that facilitate the transfer of electrons and energy. As we have emphasized thus far, cells juggle energy through opposing reactions. Photosynthesis is an anabolic pathway fueled by solar energy that allows the synthesis of organic molecules from simple raw materials. Catabolic pathways reverse this process. They break molecules down into simpler components. The centrally important catabolic pathway that is complementary to photosynthesis is cellular respiration. Although there are many other catabolic reactions occurring in any cell, cellular respiration supplies the vast majority of ATP molecules required for cellular work in aerobic organisms. If you compare the summary reactions of photosynthesis and cellular respiration, you will see that cellular respiration is photosynthesis running in reverse: sugar + O2  CO2 + H20 + energy Cellular Respiration Breaks Down Sugar and Captures Energy within ATP Sugar and oxygen gas are converted to carbon dioxide and water in cellular respiration. In the process, heat is released and ADP is phosphorylated to produce ATP. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FADH+) are enzymes found in most cells of the body. These molecules have the ability to accept and donate electrons resulting in the ability to shuttle (i.e., transport) electrons around the cell. NAD+ and FADH+ accept electrons and H+ during the early stages of the cellular respiration process. When they have accepted the electrons and H+, they become: NAD+ + 2e- + 2H+ NADH + H+ FADH+ + 2e- + 2H+ FADH2 + H+ In the later stage of cellular respiration, the NADH and FADH2 donate the electrons and H+ they are carrying to regenerate the NAD+ and FADH+ molecules. These molecules are universal electron carriers that facilitate the transfer of electrons and energy.   Cellular Respiration: A Closer Look Process Overview Cellular respiration is a key pathway in the metabolism of all aerobic organisms. On the macro scale, respiration refers to breathing: taking in oxygen and removing CO2. But ultimately, the reason we need to breathe is to provide the oxygen needed to carry out cellular respiration in our cells and to remove the carbon dioxide produced as a byproduct. Three important things happen during cellular respiration: The carbon-containing molecules used as cellular fuel are broken down and converted to carbon dioxide (CO2). Electrons and hydrogen ions (H+) are produced as sugar is broken down and energy is harvested; oxygen (O2) combines with these byproducts to produce water (H2O). The energy released when carbon-containing molecules are broken down is captured and used to generate ATP molecules; some energy is also lost as heat. In eukaryotes, the breakdown of sugar begins in the cytoplasm (cytosol), while the consumption of oxygen and the generation of CO2 and ATP synthesis happen inside specialized membrane-bound organelles called mitochondria. Respiration is a complex catabolic pathway and does not occur in one step. Steps of the Respiration Process The common pathway for aerobic cellular respiration consist of three main steps: Glycolysis, Citric Acid Cycle (also known as Kreb's Cycle), and the Electron Transport Chain. We will explore each step. Illustration by (RegisFrey) CC BY-SA 3.0 ~~~ Click here to view a larger image. Glycolysis The first step of respiration is glycolysis which happens in the cytosol (cytoplasm) of a cell. Glyco refers to sugar and lysis means to breakdown or degrade. So, this step is essentially the breaking of a sugar molecule in half. Glucose is the most common sugar used in this process. Glucose is a six carbon sugar. In glycolysis, glucose is split into two three-carbon molecules called pyruvate. This metabolic pathway breaks down glucose with or without oxygen. It is the first stage of cellular respiration and fermentation (anaerobic respiration). Splitting the bonds of glucose releases enough energy to make 2 ATP and 2 NADH molecules. NADH (and FADH2) are electron carriers. You will see why these are important in a moment. Citric Acid (or Krebs) Cycle The next step in cellular respiration is the citric acid cycle (or Krebs cycle) which happens in the inner space of the mitochondria. In this step the 3 carbon pyruvate from glycolysis is broken down into a 2-carbon molecule called acetyl CoA. The extra carbon is released as carbon dioxide (CO2). The 2-carbon acetyl CoA is bound to a 4-carbon molecule called Oxaloacetate to make a 6-carbon molecule called Citric Acid (which is where the cycle gets its name). The 6-carbon citrate is then broken back down into the 4-carbon oxaloacetate. The energy released from this process is used to build 1 ATP, 3 NADH, and 1 FADH2. Glycolysis of glucose produces 2 pyruvates, so the citric acid cycle happens twice. Therefore, per glucose, the citric acid cycle produces 2 ATP, 3 NADH, and 2 FADH2. So far, we have produced a total of 4 ATP (that's not very much). In the next step, we are about to produce over 30 ATP molecules. That's a lot more! Electron Transport Chain The electron carriers NADH and FADH2 carry high energy electrons. These electrons are passed to proteins on the inner membrane of the mitochondria. These high energy electrons are passed from one protein to the next. At each stage, the electrons lose energy. This loss in energy is used to create a concentration gradient of protons (H+). This concentration gradient is used to build ATP. The final electron acceptor in the electron transport chain is oxygen. Oxygen binds with the electron and loose H+ to produce water. Without the electron transport chain, NADH does not get broken down to NAD+ and glycolysis would not be able to continue. Fermentation uses the same pathway as glycolysis, but adds an additional step to recycle NADH. This allows the process of fermentation to continue. While glycolysis and the citric acid cycle produce a few molecules of ATP, the electron transport chain can produce over 30 ATP molecules. This is the main source of ATP for cellular respiration. Electron Transport Overview The electron transport chain is contained within the inner membrane of the mitochondria. In addition to the four protein complexes (identified by areas I, II, III and IV), the location of electron carriers NAD+, NADH, FAD, and FADH2 are also indicated. Protein complex I accepts electrons from NADH and complex II accepts electrons from succinate. Complex IV is responsible for transferring the electrons to the final electron acceptor, oxygen. Selecting the button labeled NADH will show the flow of electrons from NADH to complex IV. The button labeled FADH2 will show the path of electrons from succinate to FADH2 in complex II (succinate dehydrogenase), followed by movement of these electrons to complex IV. A helpful analogy for understanding how the electron transport chain works is a hydroelectric dam. In a hydroelectric dam, the dam separates an area of high water concentration from an area of low water concentration. Water is allowed to flow downhill through turbines in the dam. As the water flows through these turbines it turns a water wheel. The motion of the wheel is used to generate electricity. In the electron transport chain, the protons flow down their concentration gradient through a protein called ATP synthase. This protein works like a water wheel and transforms the energy from the movement of the protons into the chemical energy of ATP. Process of Cellular Respiration Combustion vs. Respiration Energy is released in small portions, so that some of the released energy can be captured in chemical bonds, ultimately as ATP. The process can be regulated at different steps, allowing cells more control over the process. Combustion vs. Respiration Both combustion and respiration release the same amount of energy. However, because combustion happens all at once, much of that energy is released as heat and light and cannot be captured by the cells. The stepwise process of respiration releases energy slowly so cells can capture the energy in ATP. Use of Dietary Nutrients and Stored Fats in Cellular Respiration Cellular respiration is a complex, multistep process. Dozens of different enzymes and intermediates are involved. Initial steps are accomplished in the cytoplasm, and additional steps occur in the mitochondria. At various points along the way, intermediates may be removed and used to synthesize fats and other molecules. Similarly, different types of food molecules may feed in to cell respiration at specific junctions in the process. Even though glucose is the starting substance used in cellular respiration, organisms do not consume pure glucose as an energy source. Instead, many different kinds of fuel molecules must be partly broken down and then fed into various stages of the cellular respiration pathway. For example, complex carbohydrates are readily converted to glucose or similar sugars. Fats and proteins can also be used in cellular respiration, but they must be modified before they can feed into the process. Many Fuels Feed into Cellular Respiration In addition to carbohydrates, fats and proteins can also be used as fuels for cellular respiration. However, these fuels must first be partially broken down, and they feed in at intermediate steps within the pathway. Cellular respiration is a key pathway in the metabolism of all aerobic organisms. On the macro scale, respiration refers to breathing: taking in oxygen and removing CO2. But ultimately, the reason we need to breathe is to provide the oxygen needed to carry out cellular respiration in our cells and to remove the carbon dioxide produced as a byproduct. Three important things happen during cellular respiration: The carbon-containing molecules used as cellular fuel are broken down and converted to carbon dioxide (CO2). Electrons and hydrogen ions (H+) are produced as sugar is broken down and energy is harvested; oxygen (O2) combines with these byproducts to produce water (H2O). The energy released when carbon-containing molecules are broken down is captured and used to generate ATP molecules; some energy is also lost as heat. In eukaryotes, the breakdown of sugar begins in the cytoplasm (cytosol), while the consumption of oxygen and the generation of CO2 and ATP synthesis happen inside specialized membrane-bound organelles called mitochondria. Respiration is a complex catabolic pathway and does not occur in one step. The common pathway for aerobic cellular respiration consist of three main steps: Glycolysis, Citric Acid Cycle (also known as Kreb's Cycle), and the Electron Transport Chain. We will explore each step. Illustration by (RegisFrey) CC BY-SA 3.0 ~~~ Click here to view a larger image. Glycolysis The first step of respiration is glycolysis which happens in the cytosol (cytoplasm) of a cell. Glyco refers to sugar and lysis means to breakdown or degrade. So, this step is essentially the breaking of a sugar molecule in half. Glucose is the most common sugar used in this process. Glucose is a six carbon sugar. In glycolysis, glucose is split into two three-carbon molecules called pyruvate. This metabolic pathway breaks down glucose with or without oxygen. It is the first stage of cellular respiration and fermentation (anaerobic respiration). Splitting the bonds of glucose releases enough energy to make 2 ATP and 2 NADH molecules. NADH (and FADH2) are electron carriers. You will see why these are important in a moment. Citric Acid (or Krebs) Cycle The next step in cellular respiration is the citric acid cycle (or Krebs cycle) which happens in the inner space of the mitochondria. In this step the 3 carbon pyruvate from glycolysis is broken down into a 2-carbon molecule called acetyl CoA. The extra carbon is released as carbon dioxide (CO2). The 2-carbon acetyl CoA is bound to a 4-carbon molecule called Oxaloacetate to make a 6-carbon molecule called Citric Acid (which is where the cycle gets its name). The 6-carbon citrate is then broken back down into the 4-carbon oxaloacetate. The energy released from this process is used to build 1 ATP, 3 NADH, and 1 FADH2. Glycolysis of glucose produces 2 pyruvates, so the citric acid cycle happens twice. Therefore, per glucose, the citric acid cycle produces 2 ATP, 3 NADH, and 2 FADH2. So far, we have produced a total of 4 ATP (that's not very much). In the next step, we are about to produce over 30 ATP molecules. That's a lot more! Electron Transport Chain The electron carriers NADH and FADH2 carry high energy electrons. These electrons are passed to proteins on the inner membrane of the mitochondria. These high energy electrons are passed from one protein to the next. At each stage, the electrons lose energy. This loss in energy is used to create a concentration gradient of protons (H+). This concentration gradient is used to build ATP. The final electron acceptor in the electron transport chain is oxygen. Oxygen binds with the electron and loose H+ to produce water. Without the electron transport chain, NADH does not get broken down to NAD+ and glycolysis would not be able to continue. Fermentation uses the same pathway as glycolysis, but adds an additional step to recycle NADH. This allows the process of fermentation to continue. While glycolysis and the citric acid cycle produce a few molecules of ATP, the electron transport chain can produce over 30 ATP molecules. This is the main source of ATP for cellular respiration. Electron Transport Overview The electron transport chain is contained within the inner membrane of the mitochondria. In addition to the four protein complexes (identified by areas I, II, III and IV), the location of electron carriers NAD+, NADH, FAD, and FADH2 are also indicated. Protein complex I accepts electrons from NADH and complex II accepts electrons from succinate. Complex IV is responsible for transferring the electrons to the final electron acceptor, oxygen. Selecting the button labeled NADH will show the flow of electrons from NADH to complex IV. The button labeled FADH2 will show the path of electrons from succinate to FADH2 in complex II (succinate dehydrogenase), followed by movement of these electrons to complex IV. A helpful analogy for understanding how the electron transport chain works is a hydroelectric dam. In a hydroelectric dam, the dam separates an area of high water concentration from an area of low water concentration. Water is allowed to flow downhill through turbines in the dam. As the water flows through these turbines it turns a water wheel. The motion of the wheel is used to generate electricity. In the electron transport chain, the protons flow down their concentration gradient through a protein called ATP synthase. This protein works like a water wheel and transforms the energy from the movement of the protons into the chemical energy of ATP. Energy is released in small portions, so that some of the released energy can be captured in chemical bonds, ultimately as ATP. The process can be regulated at different steps, allowing cells more control over the process. Combustion vs. Respiration Both combustion and respiration release the same amount of energy. However, because combustion happens all at once, much of that energy is released as heat and light and cannot be captured by the cells. The stepwise process of respiration releases energy slowly so cells can capture the energy in ATP. Cellular respiration is a complex, multistep process. Dozens of different enzymes and intermediates are involved. Initial steps are accomplished in the cytoplasm, and additional steps occur in the mitochondria. At various points along the way, intermediates may be removed and used to synthesize fats and other molecules. Similarly, different types of food molecules may feed in to cell respiration at specific junctions in the process. Even though glucose is the starting substance used in cellular respiration, organisms do not consume pure glucose as an energy source. Instead, many different kinds of fuel molecules must be partly broken down and then fed into various stages of the cellular respiration pathway. For example, complex carbohydrates are readily converted to glucose or similar sugars. Fats and proteins can also be used in cellular respiration, but they must be modified before they can feed into the process.   Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration: Summary Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are interdependent metabolic pathways. The products of cellular respiration (water and carbon dioxide) are the precursors that feed into photosynthesis. The products of photosynthesis (oxygen and glucose) are the precursors that feed into cellular respiration. This interdependence is an excellent illustration of how anabolic and catabolic reactions are also interdependent. Anabolic reactions use energy to build complex molecules, while catabolic reactions harvest the energy stored in the complex molecules by breaking them down into simple precursors. Catabolic reactions produce the energy required for anabolic reactions. In the next module, well look at how metabolic pathways are regulated. Key Terms Review this module and the following key terms introduced. When you are ready, check your understanding of photosynthesis and cellular respiration by taking the quiz linked below Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. anabolic reactions catabolic reaction cellular respiration chlorophyll combustion fermentation metabolic pathways photosynthesis pigments Review this module and the following key terms introduced. When you are ready, check your understanding of photosynthesis and cellular respiration by taking the quiz linked below Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. anabolic reactions catabolic reaction cellular respiration chlorophyll combustion fermentation metabolic pathways photosynthesis pigments   Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration: Summary Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are interdependent metabolic pathways. The products of cellular respiration (water and carbon dioxide) are the precursors that feed into photosynthesis. The products of photosynthesis (oxygen and glucose) are the precursors that feed into cellular respiration. This interdependence is an excellent illustration of how anabolic and catabolic reactions are also interdependent. Anabolic reactions use energy to build complex molecules, while catabolic reactions harvest the energy stored in the complex molecules by breaking them down into simple precursors. Catabolic reactions produce the energy required for anabolic reactions. In the next module, well look at how metabolic pathways are regulated. Key Terms Review this module and the following key terms introduced. When you are ready, check your understanding of photosynthesis and cellular respiration by taking the quiz linked below Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. anabolic reactions catabolic reaction cellular respiration chlorophyll combustion fermentation metabolic pathways photosynthesis pigments Review this module and the following key terms introduced. When you are ready, check your understanding of photosynthesis and cellular respiration by taking the quiz linked below Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. anabolic reactions catabolic reaction cellular respiration chlorophyll combustion fermentation metabolic pathways photosynthesis pigments   Photosynthesis / Cellular Respiration Cycle As you may recall, photosynthesis occurs in some bacteria; in eukaryotes it occurs in cells that contain chloroplasts. Such cells are found in algae and in the leaves and stems of plants. Photosynthetic organisms use light energy and simple building blocks (carbon dioxide and water) to make their own food. Cellular respiration is very widespread. It is completed in mitochondria, bacteria-like organelles that are found in protists, fungi, plants, and animals. Although the details of the two pathways are different, the overall reaction of cellular respiration is photosynthesis running in reverse. Cellular respiration extracts the stored energy from food molecules, uses it to charge up ATP, and releases carbon dioxide and water as wastes. Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration Recycle Carbon and Transfer Energy In the last two sections, the topics of photosynthesis and cellular respiration have been introduced and discussed as independent processes. The focus of this module is on how the two processes are part of one larger cycle. There is a yin-yang relationship between the two processes  the product of one process is the starting material for the other. In the image below, you see a summary of photosynthesis. But photosynthesis does not occur in a vacuum. In fact, it is inevitably PAIRED WITH cellular respiration in most producers. They take most of the glucose they have produced and break it right down again in their own cells. Photosynthesis Summary Reaction: CO2 and H2O to Glucose Using Light Energy In the diagram above, photosynthesis is summarized. Carbon dioxide and water are joined to form glucose using light energy. Oxygen gas is also a byproduct of this process. A full representation joins photosynthesis to cellular respiration in a cycle. The products of one reaction are the starting materials for the other. Cellular respiration and photosynthesis are interdependent. The glucose and oxygen produced by photosynthesis are used up in cellular respiration. Energy is transferred to charge up ATP, and heat, carbon dioxide, and water are released as waste products. The carbon dioxide and water are then available as raw materials for photosynthesis. Cycling Between Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration This is how the cycling between photosynthesis and cellular respiration occurs: in photosynthesis, carbon dioxide and water, in the presence of light energy, are converted to make glucose and oxygen; while in cellular respiration, the products of photosynthesis (glucose and oxygen) are metabolized to make energy in the form of ATP and heat, releasing carbon dioxide and water. Because each process starts where the other ends, they form a cycle. The photosynthesis / cellular respiration cycle isnt restricted to the cells of an individual plant. To the contrary, it is a global cycle that makes all life on Earth interdependent. A growing photosynthetic producer carries out more photosynthesis than cellular respiration. Thus, it releases excess oxygen into the atmosphere and stores carbohydrates and other molecules in its body as growth. These materials are essential to virtually all other life forms on Earth. This interdependence is depicted in the diagram below. Photosynthesis -Cellular Respiration Cycle This image shows the cycling between the products of photosynthesis and cellular respiration. The two processes are intimately linked. In the last two sections, the topics of photosynthesis and cellular respiration have been introduced and discussed as independent processes. The focus of this module is on how the two processes are part of one larger cycle. There is a yin-yang relationship between the two processes  the product of one process is the starting material for the other. In the image below, you see a summary of photosynthesis. But photosynthesis does not occur in a vacuum. In fact, it is inevitably PAIRED WITH cellular respiration in most producers. They take most of the glucose they have produced and break it right down again in their own cells. Photosynthesis Summary Reaction: CO2 and H2O to Glucose Using Light Energy In the diagram above, photosynthesis is summarized. Carbon dioxide and water are joined to form glucose using light energy. Oxygen gas is also a byproduct of this process. A full representation joins photosynthesis to cellular respiration in a cycle. The products of one reaction are the starting materials for the other. Cellular respiration and photosynthesis are interdependent. The glucose and oxygen produced by photosynthesis are used up in cellular respiration. Energy is transferred to charge up ATP, and heat, carbon dioxide, and water are released as waste products. The carbon dioxide and water are then available as raw materials for photosynthesis. This is how the cycling between photosynthesis and cellular respiration occurs: in photosynthesis, carbon dioxide and water, in the presence of light energy, are converted to make glucose and oxygen; while in cellular respiration, the products of photosynthesis (glucose and oxygen) are metabolized to make energy in the form of ATP and heat, releasing carbon dioxide and water. Because each process starts where the other ends, they form a cycle. The photosynthesis / cellular respiration cycle isnt restricted to the cells of an individual plant. To the contrary, it is a global cycle that makes all life on Earth interdependent. A growing photosynthetic producer carries out more photosynthesis than cellular respiration. Thus, it releases excess oxygen into the atmosphere and stores carbohydrates and other molecules in its body as growth. These materials are essential to virtually all other life forms on Earth. This interdependence is depicted in the diagram below. Photosynthesis -Cellular Respiration Cycle This image shows the cycling between the products of photosynthesis and cellular respiration. The two processes are intimately linked.   Relevance of the Photosynthesis / Cellular Respiration The cycling that occurs between photosynthesis and cellular respiration is vital to the health of planet Earth. If there was no way for the carbon dioxide produced through cellular respiration to be utilized, respiring organisms (like humans, dogs, and even grass) would soon die of asphyxiation. Additionally, photosynthetic organisms are the base of almost every food chain on the planet, so without these organisms, mass starvation would ensue. Luckily, this planet is full of photosynthetic organisms. All of the breathable oxygen on Earth comes from photosynthesis. Just over half of the oxygen is produced by phytoplankton  drifting photosynthetic algae and bacteria  in the oceans. The rest comes from plants (trees, grass, etc.) on the land. Without this vital connection between photosynthesis and cellular respiration, life as we know it would cease to exist. Cycling Between Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration An understanding of this balance is important in the modern world, with global warming in the headlines. Since the late 1700's, the amount of carbon dioxide in the Earths atmosphere has been rising. This indicates that the natural recycling of carbon has been upset. The main source of excess carbon dioxide in our atmosphere is the burning of fossil fuels, which were created by photosynthesis millions of years ago. Meanwhile, deforestation removes photosynthetic organisms (trees) from the surface of the planet. Taken together, these human activities have changed Earths atmosphere. The carbon dioxide concentration of Earths air has increased by more than 35 percent since the 1700's. Such changes are very likely changing Earths climate, and pollution and deforestation also have other detrimental effects on environmental health. We will return to explore these topics further in the Ecology unit. You will need to use your understanding of photosynthesis and respiration to fully grasp these issues. Iain Stewart Recently, Iain Stewart, a geoscience professor at Plymouth University, remained in an airtight chamber at the Eden Project in Cornwall for 48 hours. The 12 square meter (130 square foot) see-through plastic chamber contained between 150 and 200 plants. The aim was to demonstrate the importance of plants to human survival as the "lungs of the planet." To view a picture and learn more about Mr. Stewart's experiment, click here. Iain Stewart Photosynthesis / Cellular Respiration Cycle Consider the photosynthesis / cellular respiration cycle. For each of the following statements, determine whether it can be classified as being involved in photosynthesis, cellular respiration, or both.   Photosynthesis / Cellular Respiration Cycle As you may recall, photosynthesis occurs in some bacteria; in eukaryotes it occurs in cells that contain chloroplasts. Such cells are found in algae and in the leaves and stems of plants. Photosynthetic organisms use light energy and simple building blocks (carbon dioxide and water) to make their own food. Cellular respiration is very widespread. It is completed in mitochondria, bacteria-like organelles that are found in protists, fungi, plants, and animals. Although the details of the two pathways are different, the overall reaction of cellular respiration is photosynthesis running in reverse. Cellular respiration extracts the stored energy from food molecules, uses it to charge up ATP, and releases carbon dioxide and water as wastes. Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration Recycle Carbon and Transfer Energy In the last two sections, the topics of photosynthesis and cellular respiration have been introduced and discussed as independent processes. The focus of this module is on how the two processes are part of one larger cycle. There is a yin-yang relationship between the two processes  the product of one process is the starting material for the other. In the image below, you see a summary of photosynthesis. But photosynthesis does not occur in a vacuum. In fact, it is inevitably PAIRED WITH cellular respiration in most producers. They take most of the glucose they have produced and break it right down again in their own cells. Photosynthesis Summary Reaction: CO2 and H2O to Glucose Using Light Energy In the diagram above, photosynthesis is summarized. Carbon dioxide and water are joined to form glucose using light energy. Oxygen gas is also a byproduct of this process. A full representation joins photosynthesis to cellular respiration in a cycle. The products of one reaction are the starting materials for the other. Cellular respiration and photosynthesis are interdependent. The glucose and oxygen produced by photosynthesis are used up in cellular respiration. Energy is transferred to charge up ATP, and heat, carbon dioxide, and water are released as waste products. The carbon dioxide and water are then available as raw materials for photosynthesis. Cycling Between Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration This is how the cycling between photosynthesis and cellular respiration occurs: in photosynthesis, carbon dioxide and water, in the presence of light energy, are converted to make glucose and oxygen; while in cellular respiration, the products of photosynthesis (glucose and oxygen) are metabolized to make energy in the form of ATP and heat, releasing carbon dioxide and water. Because each process starts where the other ends, they form a cycle. The photosynthesis / cellular respiration cycle isnt restricted to the cells of an individual plant. To the contrary, it is a global cycle that makes all life on Earth interdependent. A growing photosynthetic producer carries out more photosynthesis than cellular respiration. Thus, it releases excess oxygen into the atmosphere and stores carbohydrates and other molecules in its body as growth. These materials are essential to virtually all other life forms on Earth. This interdependence is depicted in the diagram below. Photosynthesis -Cellular Respiration Cycle This image shows the cycling between the products of photosynthesis and cellular respiration. The two processes are intimately linked. In the last two sections, the topics of photosynthesis and cellular respiration have been introduced and discussed as independent processes. The focus of this module is on how the two processes are part of one larger cycle. There is a yin-yang relationship between the two processes  the product of one process is the starting material for the other. In the image below, you see a summary of photosynthesis. But photosynthesis does not occur in a vacuum. In fact, it is inevitably PAIRED WITH cellular respiration in most producers. They take most of the glucose they have produced and break it right down again in their own cells. Photosynthesis Summary Reaction: CO2 and H2O to Glucose Using Light Energy In the diagram above, photosynthesis is summarized. Carbon dioxide and water are joined to form glucose using light energy. Oxygen gas is also a byproduct of this process. A full representation joins photosynthesis to cellular respiration in a cycle. The products of one reaction are the starting materials for the other. Cellular respiration and photosynthesis are interdependent. The glucose and oxygen produced by photosynthesis are used up in cellular respiration. Energy is transferred to charge up ATP, and heat, carbon dioxide, and water are released as waste products. The carbon dioxide and water are then available as raw materials for photosynthesis. This is how the cycling between photosynthesis and cellular respiration occurs: in photosynthesis, carbon dioxide and water, in the presence of light energy, are converted to make glucose and oxygen; while in cellular respiration, the products of photosynthesis (glucose and oxygen) are metabolized to make energy in the form of ATP and heat, releasing carbon dioxide and water. Because each process starts where the other ends, they form a cycle. The photosynthesis / cellular respiration cycle isnt restricted to the cells of an individual plant. To the contrary, it is a global cycle that makes all life on Earth interdependent. A growing photosynthetic producer carries out more photosynthesis than cellular respiration. Thus, it releases excess oxygen into the atmosphere and stores carbohydrates and other molecules in its body as growth. These materials are essential to virtually all other life forms on Earth. This interdependence is depicted in the diagram below. Photosynthesis -Cellular Respiration Cycle This image shows the cycling between the products of photosynthesis and cellular respiration. The two processes are intimately linked.   Inputs and Outputs of Photosynthesis The main purpose of photosynthesis is to convert energy from sunlight and store it as bond energy within sugars. Photosynthesis uses pigments (such as chlorophyll) in the chloroplasts to absorb light energy. This energy is used to produce sugars from carbon dioxide, while oxygen is given off as a byproduct. You will examine the function of pigments in more detail later. Photosynthesis Transforms Light to Chemical Energy in Sugar Light energy enables photosynthesis. This process requires the participation of chlorophyll pigment; in plants it occurs mainly in leaves. Some photosynthetic organisms (such as most algae and cyanobacteria) live in water. Their cells are equipped with pigments to absorb light, and they absorb water and other nutrients directly across the cell membrane. They are faced with a challenge involving the attenuation (loss) of light energy with increasing depth. As a result, many algae and cyanobacteria have adaptations that keep them floating near the waters surface. Kelp Float to Reach Light These kelp are anchored below and use air bladders for the top of the plant to reach the waters surface. Land plants face a different set of challenges. Plant leaves are the main location of photosynthesis. They are often large, flat structures that are adapted for maximum light absorption. In many plants, leaves also are held high above the ground by tall stems. Growing tall is an adaptation that helps a plant get high-intensity sunlight, because short plants are more likely to be shaded by taller ones. Plants Grow Tall to Compete for Light Land plant leaves are often broad and flat, maximizing the surface area for light absorption. Many species also grow upward to gain access to high-intensity sunlight. Note also how the leaves are arranged: few gaps are left unfilled in this trees canopy. Land plants also face the risk of drying out. Plants have evolved traits that protect their above-ground portions from excess water loss. For example, plant leaves are sealed with a layer of waxy material called cuticle. Protected in this way, leaves cannot efficiently absorb water when it rains. Instead, land plants absorb water from the ground (through their roots). Plants must then transport water upward to leaves and other tissues. This is quite a challenge for a tall plant. Plants have no moving parts that could power a pump, so their circulatory systems must work on different principles. Plants use specialized cells to move water. These cells are essentially long, thin tubes that transport water from the roots all the way up to hollow cavities in the leaves. Evaporation of water from leaves provides negative pressure that sucks water up the tubes. The thick cell wall that allows the tube cells to function without collapsing also provides the plant with structural stability. Wood is mainly the structural material that remains after these cells have died. Ultimately, an adaptation for moving water helps woody plants grow even taller than their less sturdy cousins, further enhancing their access to light. Microscopic image of wood Under a microscope, you can see the individual transport cells that make up the wood. The adaptations of plants have long been a subject of biological study. One of the first questions asked by early scientists was, How do plants get their resources for growth? Where Do Plants Get Carbon? Water and light are essential for building sugar (C6H12O6), but neither of these contain carbon. To build sugar, photosynthesis needs a carbon source. Where do plants get this carbon? Do they get it from the soil, through their roots (like they get water)? Jean-Baptist van Helmont designed an experiment to test this in the 1600s. He planted a tree in a pot and watered it. He measured the weight of the soil and the tree both before and after the experiment. Applying the principle of conservation of matter, van Helmont knew that the trees carbon couldnt just appear from nowhere. If the tree ate soil, then as it grew, the soils mass should decline by a similar amount. Jean-Baptist van Helmonts experiment shows that the carbon needed for photosynthesis does not come from the soil. However, the experiment does not indicate where the carbon does come from. A number of other studies conducted by scientists over many decades were required to show the precise source of the carbon. Today, we know that CO2 from the air is the source of carbon for photosynthesis. Photosynthesis: A Summary Photosynthesis is summarized in the diagram above. The sun provides energy that enables carbon dioxide and water to react to form glucose. Oxygen gas is a byproduct of this process.   Inputs and Outputs of Photosynthesis The main purpose of photosynthesis is to convert energy from sunlight and store it as bond energy within sugars. Photosynthesis uses pigments (such as chlorophyll) in the chloroplasts to absorb light energy. This energy is used to produce sugars from carbon dioxide, while oxygen is given off as a byproduct. You will examine the function of pigments in more detail later. Photosynthesis Transforms Light to Chemical Energy in Sugar Light energy enables photosynthesis. This process requires the participation of chlorophyll pigment; in plants it occurs mainly in leaves. Some photosynthetic organisms (such as most algae and cyanobacteria) live in water. Their cells are equipped with pigments to absorb light, and they absorb water and other nutrients directly across the cell membrane. They are faced with a challenge involving the attenuation (loss) of light energy with increasing depth. As a result, many algae and cyanobacteria have adaptations that keep them floating near the waters surface. Kelp Float to Reach Light These kelp are anchored below and use air bladders for the top of the plant to reach the waters surface. Land plants face a different set of challenges. Plant leaves are the main location of photosynthesis. They are often large, flat structures that are adapted for maximum light absorption. In many plants, leaves also are held high above the ground by tall stems. Growing tall is an adaptation that helps a plant get high-intensity sunlight, because short plants are more likely to be shaded by taller ones. Plants Grow Tall to Compete for Light Land plant leaves are often broad and flat, maximizing the surface area for light absorption. Many species also grow upward to gain access to high-intensity sunlight. Note also how the leaves are arranged: few gaps are left unfilled in this trees canopy. Land plants also face the risk of drying out. Plants have evolved traits that protect their above-ground portions from excess water loss. For example, plant leaves are sealed with a layer of waxy material called cuticle. Protected in this way, leaves cannot efficiently absorb water when it rains. Instead, land plants absorb water from the ground (through their roots). Plants must then transport water upward to leaves and other tissues. This is quite a challenge for a tall plant. Plants have no moving parts that could power a pump, so their circulatory systems must work on different principles. Plants use specialized cells to move water. These cells are essentially long, thin tubes that transport water from the roots all the way up to hollow cavities in the leaves. Evaporation of water from leaves provides negative pressure that sucks water up the tubes. The thick cell wall that allows the tube cells to function without collapsing also provides the plant with structural stability. Wood is mainly the structural material that remains after these cells have died. Ultimately, an adaptation for moving water helps woody plants grow even taller than their less sturdy cousins, further enhancing their access to light. Microscopic image of wood Under a microscope, you can see the individual transport cells that make up the wood. The adaptations of plants have long been a subject of biological study. One of the first questions asked by early scientists was, How do plants get their resources for growth? Where Do Plants Get Carbon? Water and light are essential for building sugar (C6H12O6), but neither of these contain carbon. To build sugar, photosynthesis needs a carbon source. Where do plants get this carbon? Do they get it from the soil, through their roots (like they get water)? Jean-Baptist van Helmont designed an experiment to test this in the 1600s. He planted a tree in a pot and watered it. He measured the weight of the soil and the tree both before and after the experiment. Applying the principle of conservation of matter, van Helmont knew that the trees carbon couldnt just appear from nowhere. If the tree ate soil, then as it grew, the soils mass should decline by a similar amount. Jean-Baptist van Helmonts experiment shows that the carbon needed for photosynthesis does not come from the soil. However, the experiment does not indicate where the carbon does come from. A number of other studies conducted by scientists over many decades were required to show the precise source of the carbon. Today, we know that CO2 from the air is the source of carbon for photosynthesis. Photosynthesis: A Summary Photosynthesis is summarized in the diagram above. The sun provides energy that enables carbon dioxide and water to react to form glucose. Oxygen gas is a byproduct of this process. The Calvin Cycle: CO2 Reduction to Glucose Examine the diagram of the Calvin Cycle below. Each item labeled represents a stage in the cycle, molecules used, and molecules produced. Identify each label by selecting the name of the Calvin Cycle stage and the name of the molecules. (Note: The integer in front of the molecule names indicates the number of that molecule used or produced.)   How Photosynthetic Pigments Capture Light Energy We know that plants require light. But light is a complex form of energy. Visible light is just a small part of a much broader spectrum including many forms of electromagnetic radiation. In many ways, light behaves as a wave. Different colors of light have different wavelengths. In a given period of time, short wavelengths deliver more energy to a surface than longer wavelengths. Thus blue light is higher in energy than red light. Sunlight Includes All Colors of Visible Light A rainbow vividly demonstrates that sunlight includes a range of light colors and wavelengths, from blue (shorter wavelengths) to red (longer wavelengths). Raindrops act as prisms, separating the wavelengths and making the colors apparent.  Copyright Rod Trevaskus and licensed for reuse under this Creative Commons Licence. Are all wavelengths of light equally useful for photosynthesis? In 1883, a scientist named George Engelmann designed an experiment to answer this question. He shined a light through a prism to separate the different wavelengths so that they landed on different zones along the length of filaments of Spirogyra, a type of green algae. Examine the following image depicting Engelmanns results. Engelmann's Action Spectrum Experiment Pigments are colored substances that absorb light energy. Why does a pigment look red, green, purple, or blue? A given pigment absorbs only a limited set of light wavelengths. For example, a red pigment absorbs green and blue wavelengths. Red light, by contrast, is NOT absorbed: it is either reflected or transmitted through a solution containing the pigment. Pigments Absorb Some Wavelengths and Reflect Others The green chlorophyll pigment appears green because it reflects and transmits light in the green wavelength range. Blue and red light, by contrast, are absorbed. What happens to light energy that is absorbed by a pigment? In keeping with the law of conservation of energy, this energy does not disappear. Instead, it excites electrons in the pigment, boosting them to higher energy levels. In plants, the excited electrons from some pigments are transferred to other molecules, where they start the transformation of light energy into chemical potential energy. If excited electrons are not removed from a pigment molecule, they will eventually fall back to their starting point. At this point, the pigment will release energy. In some pigments, a portion of the released energy is emitted as light. If you expose these fluorescent pigments to light and then place them in a dark place, they will glow. All pigments release at least some of the energy they absorbed from light as heat. Photosynthesis Achieved by Algae In the experiment mentioned above, George Engelmann used bacteria to measure the amount of photosynthesis achieved by algae. The bacteria he used in his study require oxygen to live. In each zone along the length of the filament, there were different wavelengths of light. So, some algal cells were photosynthesizing mainly with red light, others with green light, etc. The amount of photosynthesis supported by each wavelength was measured by how many bacteria were able to live in each zone. O2 is a product of photosynthesis. This product is essential for many living organisms, including humans and any other organisms that go through cellular respiration. When photosynthesis became widespread in the early Earths oceans, it generated excess oxygen gas that changed the Earths atmosphere. This increase in atmospheric oxygen concentration eventually changed the face of our planet as organisms that couldnt adapt died off and new organisms evolved.   How Photosynthetic Pigments Capture Light Energy We know that plants require light. But light is a complex form of energy. Visible light is just a small part of a much broader spectrum including many forms of electromagnetic radiation. In many ways, light behaves as a wave. Different colors of light have different wavelengths. In a given period of time, short wavelengths deliver more energy to a surface than longer wavelengths. Thus blue light is higher in energy than red light. Sunlight Includes All Colors of Visible Light A rainbow vividly demonstrates that sunlight includes a range of light colors and wavelengths, from blue (shorter wavelengths) to red (longer wavelengths). Raindrops act as prisms, separating the wavelengths and making the colors apparent.  Copyright Rod Trevaskus and licensed for reuse under this Creative Commons Licence. Are all wavelengths of light equally useful for photosynthesis? In 1883, a scientist named George Engelmann designed an experiment to answer this question. He shined a light through a prism to separate the different wavelengths so that they landed on different zones along the length of filaments of Spirogyra, a type of green algae. Examine the following image depicting Engelmanns results. Engelmann's Action Spectrum Experiment Pigments are colored substances that absorb light energy. Why does a pigment look red, green, purple, or blue? A given pigment absorbs only a limited set of light wavelengths. For example, a red pigment absorbs green and blue wavelengths. Red light, by contrast, is NOT absorbed: it is either reflected or transmitted through a solution containing the pigment. Pigments Absorb Some Wavelengths and Reflect Others The green chlorophyll pigment appears green because it reflects and transmits light in the green wavelength range. Blue and red light, by contrast, are absorbed. What happens to light energy that is absorbed by a pigment? In keeping with the law of conservation of energy, this energy does not disappear. Instead, it excites electrons in the pigment, boosting them to higher energy levels. In plants, the excited electrons from some pigments are transferred to other molecules, where they start the transformation of light energy into chemical potential energy. If excited electrons are not removed from a pigment molecule, they will eventually fall back to their starting point. At this point, the pigment will release energy. In some pigments, a portion of the released energy is emitted as light. If you expose these fluorescent pigments to light and then place them in a dark place, they will glow. All pigments release at least some of the energy they absorbed from light as heat. Photosynthesis Achieved by Algae In the experiment mentioned above, George Engelmann used bacteria to measure the amount of photosynthesis achieved by algae. The bacteria he used in his study require oxygen to live. In each zone along the length of the filament, there were different wavelengths of light. So, some algal cells were photosynthesizing mainly with red light, others with green light, etc. The amount of photosynthesis supported by each wavelength was measured by how many bacteria were able to live in each zone. O2 is a product of photosynthesis. This product is essential for many living organisms, including humans and any other organisms that go through cellular respiration. When photosynthesis became widespread in the early Earths oceans, it generated excess oxygen gas that changed the Earths atmosphere. This increase in atmospheric oxygen concentration eventually changed the face of our planet as organisms that couldnt adapt died off and new organisms evolved. Absorption and Action Spectra Pretend photosynthetic life is discovered on another planet. Pigment molecules are extracted then absorption and action spectra are determined. The chart below shows the results.   Photosynthesis: Incorporating Carbon from Carbon Dioxide Photosynthesis requires particular enzymes and cellular structures. Since our cells (and other animal cells) don't have these structures, we cannot do photosynthesis. The cell structures module discussed these structures. Do you remember what they are called? You may want to review that module before continuing. Photosynthesis requires light. But which wavelength of light is best? Plants and other photosynthetic organisms use light energy to build sugars (C6H12O6) for energy storage. These organisms can then break down the sugars to build ATP using the process of cellular respiration. Are all wavelengths of light equally useful for photosynthesis? In 1883, a scientist named George Englemann designed an experiment to answer this question. He shined a light through a prism to separate the different wavelengths of light. These different wavelengths shone on different areas of an algae (called Spirogyra). From this experiment, Englemann ws able to determine which wavelengths of light were most utilized by algae in photosynthesis. LEARNBYDOING: inline_wavelengths_of_light_for_photosynthesis_LBD Picture of Algae/Bacteria Experiment Bacteria observed in the spectrum of light wavelengths. Note: copyrighted image place holder Retrieved from http://www.doctortee.com/dsu/tiftickjian/bio100/photosynthesis.html DIDIGETTHIS: inline_wavelengths_DIGT LEARNBYDOING: inline_products_of_photosynthesis_lbd Oxygen (O2) is a product of photosynthesis. This product is essential for other living organisms (such as humans and any organism that uses cellular respiration). When the first photosynthetic cells evolved on the primitive earth, they caused a drastic increase in oxygen concentration within the atmosphere. This increase in oxygen concentration changed the face of our planet as organisms that couldnt adapt died off and new organisms evolved. The main purpose of photosynthesis is to convert energy from sunlight and store it as bond energy within sugars. We have seen that photosynthesis uses pigments (such as chlorophyll) in the chloroplasts to absorb light. This energy is used to produce sugars and also produces oxygen as a product. Plant leaves are the main location of photosynthesis. They are often large, flat surfaces that are adapted for maximum light absorption. In land plants, the leaves are also often found on the ends of tall stems. Growing as tall as possible is an adaptation that helps the plant get to the sunlight; short plants are shaded by taller ones. The problem with growing tall, is that most of the water is found underground. Photosynthesis needs more than just light and pigments to work. One of the two additional items that are needed is water. Some photosynthetic organisms (such as algae and bacteria) live in water and can absorb it directly. In land plants, however, the above-ground portions of the plant have evolved to reduce water loss; one consequence of this is that land plants can no longer absorb water directly through all parts of the plant. Instead, land plants absorb water from the ground (through their roots) and then must transport this water throughout the entire plant. Water and light are essential for building sugar (C6H12O6), but neither of these contain carbon. To build sugar, photosynthesis needs a carbon source. Where do photosynthetic organisms get this carbon? Do they get it from the soil, through their roots (like they get water)? Jean-Baptist van Helmont designed an experiment to test this in the 1600s. He planted a tree in a pot and watered it. He measured the weight of the soil and the tree both before and after the experiment. He found that the weight of the soil was approximately the same before and after, but the weight of the tree increased greatly. weight at beginning of experiment weight at end of experiment soil 200 lbs 199 lbs tree 5 lbs 169 lbs LEARNBYDOING: inline_carbon_source_for_photosynthesis_lbd Jean-Baptist van Helmonts experiment shows that the carbon needed for photosynthesis does not come from the soil. It does not show where the carbon does come from. A number of other studies conducted by scientists over many decades were required to show where the carbon comes from. Today, we know that CO2 is the source of carbon for photosynthesis. The overall equation for photosynthesis is: Water + Light + CO2  sugar + O2 DIDIGETTHIS:inline_photosynthesis_overview_digt CHECKPOINT: quiz_photosynthesis_assessment_q Plants and other photosynthetic organisms use light energy to build sugars (C6H12O6) for energy storage. These organisms can then break down the sugars to build ATP using the process of cellular respiration. Are all wavelengths of light equally useful for photosynthesis? In 1883, a scientist named George Englemann designed an experiment to answer this question. He shined a light through a prism to separate the different wavelengths of light. These different wavelengths shone on different areas of an algae (called Spirogyra). From this experiment, Englemann ws able to determine which wavelengths of light were most utilized by algae in photosynthesis. LEARNBYDOING: inline_wavelengths_of_light_for_photosynthesis_LBD Picture of Algae/Bacteria Experiment Bacteria observed in the spectrum of light wavelengths. Note: copyrighted image place holder Retrieved from http://www.doctortee.com/dsu/tiftickjian/bio100/photosynthesis.html DIDIGETTHIS: inline_wavelengths_DIGT LEARNBYDOING: inline_products_of_photosynthesis_lbd Oxygen (O2) is a product of photosynthesis. This product is essential for other living organisms (such as humans and any organism that uses cellular respiration). When the first photosynthetic cells evolved on the primitive earth, they caused a drastic increase in oxygen concentration within the atmosphere. This increase in oxygen concentration changed the face of our planet as organisms that couldnt adapt died off and new organisms evolved. The main purpose of photosynthesis is to convert energy from sunlight and store it as bond energy within sugars. We have seen that photosynthesis uses pigments (such as chlorophyll) in the chloroplasts to absorb light. This energy is used to produce sugars and also produces oxygen as a product. Plant leaves are the main location of photosynthesis. They are often large, flat surfaces that are adapted for maximum light absorption. In land plants, the leaves are also often found on the ends of tall stems. Growing as tall as possible is an adaptation that helps the plant get to the sunlight; short plants are shaded by taller ones. The problem with growing tall, is that most of the water is found underground. Photosynthesis needs more than just light and pigments to work. One of the two additional items that are needed is water. Some photosynthetic organisms (such as algae and bacteria) live in water and can absorb it directly. In land plants, however, the above-ground portions of the plant have evolved to reduce water loss; one consequence of this is that land plants can no longer absorb water directly through all parts of the plant. Instead, land plants absorb water from the ground (through their roots) and then must transport this water throughout the entire plant. Water and light are essential for building sugar (C6H12O6), but neither of these contain carbon. To build sugar, photosynthesis needs a carbon source. Where do photosynthetic organisms get this carbon? Do they get it from the soil, through their roots (like they get water)? Jean-Baptist van Helmont designed an experiment to test this in the 1600s. He planted a tree in a pot and watered it. He measured the weight of the soil and the tree both before and after the experiment. He found that the weight of the soil was approximately the same before and after, but the weight of the tree increased greatly. weight at beginning of experiment weight at end of experiment soil 200 lbs 199 lbs tree 5 lbs 169 lbs LEARNBYDOING: inline_carbon_source_for_photosynthesis_lbd Jean-Baptist van Helmonts experiment shows that the carbon needed for photosynthesis does not come from the soil. It does not show where the carbon does come from. A number of other studies conducted by scientists over many decades were required to show where the carbon comes from. Today, we know that CO2 is the source of carbon for photosynthesis. The overall equation for photosynthesis is: Water + Light + CO2  sugar + O2 DIDIGETTHIS:inline_photosynthesis_overview_digt CHECKPOINT: quiz_photosynthesis_assessment_q   Regulation of Pathways At the heart of metabolism are enzymes. These proteins embrace substrates, quickly generating products. One or more substrates bind to an enzymes active site. As a result, activation energy is reduced and the reaction proceeds much more quickly than it otherwise would. Without enzymes, metabolism would grind to a halt. Furthermore, the structural characteristics of enzymes allow the regulation of their function, thus allowing the regulation of the metabolic pathways they participate in. You may want to review the functions of enzyme proteins. Metabolic pathways are regulated in order to maintain maximum efficiency or in response to environmental changes. There are two major methods of pathway regulation. The first method involves changing the amount of the enzymes in the pathway. Since the reactions are catalyzed by the enzymes, if the enzyme is not present, the pathway is effectively shut off. Enzyme levels are usually altered by controlling the amount of mRNA produced from the gene that encodes the enzyme. You will explore how enzyme levels are regulated in the section on transcription. Regulation of pathways by altering the amount of enzymes in the pathway is usually too slow to meet the second-by-second regulation needs of the organism. Consequently, many pathways are regulated by increasing or decreasing the activity of an enzyme due to the binding of a small regulatory compound. Typically, only a few steps in the pathway are regulated, and the regulated steps typically occur near the beginning of the pathway to prevent the accumulation of intermediates, which are seldom of use to the cell. Think of an assembly line: the speed of production will change depending on how much of the starting material is available, how quickly each of the workers completes the task, and how much of the final product is needed. Similarly, pathways are influenced by the availability of the starting materials, the activity of each enzyme in the pathway, and the concentration of product already present in the cell. Glucose and Cellular Respiration Lets look at an example of a metabolic pathway and explore one mechanism that regulates it. You may remember that cellular respiration is an essential catabolic pathway. Cellular respiration starts with a pathway called glycolysis, which degrades three-carbon glucose into a three-carbon molecule called pyruvate. Glucose can come from ingested carbohydrates, or from degradation of glycogen, a polysaccharide. When there is an excess of carbohydrates, they are stored as glycogen in an anabolic pathway. Glycolysis is the first stage of cellular respiration, in which glucose is degraded to a three-carbon compound called pyruvate. In this process, ATP is formed. As with all pathways, glycolysis has several steps. The on-off switch of the pathway is found at the third enzyme (represented by a traffic light), which is inhibited by high levels of ATP. Synthesis and degradation of glycogen, a polymer of glucose commonly found in animal cells, occurs through an early intermediate of glycolysis. Regulating Glycolysis and Glycogen Synthesis The images below (A, B, and C) represent the activity of the pathway at three different ATP levels in the cell:   Common Characteristics of Metabolic Pathways In the previous modules, you learned about metabolic pathways in cells  those freeways that shuttle energy and carbon in different directions. Metabolic pathways can be either anabolic or catabolic. Anabolic pathways build things up and catabolic pathways break them back down again, sometimes as a source of energy, other times to obtain building materials. Among the main pathways of the cell are photosynthesis and cellular respiration, although there are a variety of alternative pathways such as fermentation. Metabolic Pathways Metabolic pathways consist of an ordered set of chemical reactions that are catalyzed by enzymes. At the heart of metabolism are enzymes. These proteins embrace substrates, quickly generating products. One or more substrates bind to an enzymes active site. As a result, the activation energy is reduced and the reaction proceeds much more quickly than it otherwise would. Without enzymes, metabolism would grind to a halt. Furthermore, the structural characteristics of enzymes allow the regulation of their function, thus allowing the regulation of the metabolic pathways they participate in. A huge diversity of enzymes is required to run the metabolic reactions necessary to maintain even a single cell. Metabolic pathways consist of an ordered set of chemical reactions that are catalyzed by enzymes. At the heart of metabolism are enzymes. These proteins embrace substrates, quickly generating products. One or more substrates bind to an enzymes active site. As a result, the activation energy is reduced and the reaction proceeds much more quickly than it otherwise would. Without enzymes, metabolism would grind to a halt. Furthermore, the structural characteristics of enzymes allow the regulation of their function, thus allowing the regulation of the metabolic pathways they participate in. A huge diversity of enzymes is required to run the metabolic reactions necessary to maintain even a single cell.   Four Features of Metabolic Pathways Regardless of their purpose, all metabolic pathways share four important features: Many pathways are universal among living organisms. When you look at life, you may see a great deal of diversity. Those who study metabolism, by contrast, see a huge degree of overlap among the cells of all living things. Many of the fundamental enzymes that keep our cells working are found in only slightly different forms in creatures as varied as zebrafish, fruit flies, yeast, and nematode worms. This is partly why studies on model organisms can teach us so much about our own biology. These organisms all use very similar metabolic pathways Metabolic pathways (such as cellular respiration) are nearly universal. These organisms all use similar pathways. Each pathway contains multiple intermediate products, and there are small molecular differences between the intermediates. Pathways proceed in baby steps. A chemical change that can be written and balanced as a single reaction may, in a real pathway, require dozens of reaction steps! An Example of a Linear Metabolic Pathway This pathway shows the production of the end product D from the starting substrate A. In this reaction, A is the substrate of enzyme 1, which produces B. Enzyme 2 then uses B as its substrate to produce C. Enzyme 3 then uses C as its substrate to produce D. Each step within the pathway, or the conversion from one intermediate to the next, is catalyzed by an enzyme. Thousands of enzymes catalyze reactions in human cells. Each enzyme conducts a single chemical reaction. The coordination of many enzymes working together can produce a variety of outcomes. An Example of a Branched Metabolic Pathway Each enzyme within the pathway is specific to one reaction. The direction of the arrows indicate that this pathway is an anabolic, or synthetic, pathway where complex biomolecules D and F are synthesized using the simpler molecule A as starting material. The coordinated effort of many enzymes can produce a variety of final products. Each pathway is regulated to ensure the optimal use of resources and to maintain the health of the cell. For example, if there is plenty of ATP in a cell, the cellular respiration pathway (which produces ATP as its final product) will slow down. In a complex web of cause and effect, pathways influence themselves and each other. The net effect in a healthy cell is the maintenance of homeostasis. Stockpiles of raw materials, intermediates, and finished products are maintained at optimal levels, and the chemistry of the cell cytosol is also regulated, as are extracellular fluids. Many metabolic pathways are reversible, which means that certain chemical reactions can go either way, depending on the needs of the cell. For example, some of the reactions that are part of cellular respiration (which is a catabolic pathway) can become anabolic when there is a surplus of energy. A small number of steps utilize different enzymes in the forward versus the reverse direction. These enzymes are regulated in a coordinated fashion such that a pathway operates in only direction at time. Catabolic and Anabolic Reactions Animals use fats and complex carbohydrates such as glycogen for long-term energy storage. When energy is needed, catabolic pathways degrade lipids and glycogen to glucose or other intermediates of the cellular respiration pathway, resulting in ATP production. When there is excess ATP (for example after eating a meal rich in fats and sugars), parts of the cellular respiration pathway go in reverse to provide building blocks for the anabolic reactions building up lipids and glycogen.   Application Spotlight: Regulation in Bacteria In this spotlight, we will explore in more detail changes in gene expression (transcription) due to changes in the environment. Eukaryotes have complex regulatory mechanisms; consequently, we will focus on gene regulation in prokaryotes. However, common principles of regulation are used by both prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, and an understanding of regulation in prokaryotes will help you understand eukaryotic regulation in future studies. Many bacterial genes are expressed at the same time as part of an operon. The expression of the genes in the operon is controlled by a repressor protein. The repressor protein will bind to the regulatory region at a DNA sequence. This sequence is the operator. When the repressor is bound to the DNA, RNA polymerase cannot transcribe the structural genes because it is blocked by the repressor protein bound on the DNA; under these conditions, none of the enzymes required for the pathway is produced. Whether or not the repressor binds to the operator is controlled by the binding of a small molecule to the repressor. The small molecule is either the compound that enters the pathway (for catabolic, or degradative pathways) or the compound that is produced by the pathway (for anabolic, or synthetic pathways). The compound binds to the repressor protein and causes the repressor either to bind to the DNA (this is called positive control), turning off transcription, or to be released from the operator site on the DNA (this is called negative control), turning on transcription. You will explore both of these control mechanisms in the spotlight below. The Bacterial Operon. The operon contains the promoter (green box), the operator sequence (red box), and two or more structural genes that code for structural proteins. If the operon is associated with metabolic pathways, the structural proteins would be the enzymes in the pathway. In addition to the genes in the operon, there is a separate gene that codes for the repressor protein, so its transcription is independent of the transcription of the operon. The repressor protein controls the expression of genes in the operon by binding to the operator DNA sequence, blocking the ability of RNA polymerase to transcribe the structural genes (A-C) for the operon. When the repressor is not bound to its operator, RNA polymerase can transcribe the operon and it will produce one long mRNA transcript, containing the coding information for the structural proteins. Lac Operon Bacteria can use a wide variety of carbon sources as fuel to extract energy for growth. Two common carbon sources are the sugars glucose and lactose (milk sugar). Glucose is a monosaccharide containing one six-membered ring, while lactose is a disaccharide made of glucose linked to galactose. It is less efficient for bacteria to use lactose as an energy source because they must take additional steps to convert lactose into a form that can be used to extract energy. Each of these steps requires the synthesis of an enzyme, which is costly to the bacteria. Consequently, bacteria prefer to use glucose rather than lactose as a fuel source when both sugars are present. However, when lactose is present and glucose is not, the bacteria turn on, or synthesize, the enzymes required for lactose metabolism, allowing the bacteria to use lactose for energy. The genes for lactose metabolism are contained in an operon known as the lac operon. The lac operon is controlled by the lac repressor, which is produced from the lacI gene. The lacI gene has its own promoter; consequently, low levels of the lac repressor protein are present all of the time. Three structural genes in the operon, lacZ, lacY, and lacA, encode enzymes required for lactose metabolism. Thus far, we have described what happens when either glucose is present or lactose is present. If both are present, glucose is used first by the bacteria, and only very small amounts of the enzymes for lactose metabolism are made. Complete the following Learn by Doing to understand how glucose turns off the lac operon, even if lactose is present. Regulation of Biosynthetic Pathways The enzymes for the synthesis of the amino acid tryptophan are contained in the Trp operon. The structure of this operon is shown below. The trp repressor binds the amino acid tryptophan, the end product of the biosynthesis of tryptophan (trp). As you can see, it has the same structure as the lac operon, but it contains more genes for the biosynthesis of trp. Bacteria can use a wide variety of carbon sources as fuel to extract energy for growth. Two common carbon sources are the sugars glucose and lactose (milk sugar). Glucose is a monosaccharide containing one six-membered ring, while lactose is a disaccharide made of glucose linked to galactose. It is less efficient for bacteria to use lactose as an energy source because they must take additional steps to convert lactose into a form that can be used to extract energy. Each of these steps requires the synthesis of an enzyme, which is costly to the bacteria. Consequently, bacteria prefer to use glucose rather than lactose as a fuel source when both sugars are present. However, when lactose is present and glucose is not, the bacteria turn on, or synthesize, the enzymes required for lactose metabolism, allowing the bacteria to use lactose for energy. The genes for lactose metabolism are contained in an operon known as the lac operon. The lac operon is controlled by the lac repressor, which is produced from the lacI gene. The lacI gene has its own promoter; consequently, low levels of the lac repressor protein are present all of the time. Three structural genes in the operon, lacZ, lacY, and lacA, encode enzymes required for lactose metabolism. Thus far, we have described what happens when either glucose is present or lactose is present. If both are present, glucose is used first by the bacteria, and only very small amounts of the enzymes for lactose metabolism are made. Complete the following Learn by Doing to understand how glucose turns off the lac operon, even if lactose is present. Regulation of Biosynthetic Pathways The enzymes for the synthesis of the amino acid tryptophan are contained in the Trp operon. The structure of this operon is shown below. The trp repressor binds the amino acid tryptophan, the end product of the biosynthesis of tryptophan (trp). As you can see, it has the same structure as the lac operon, but it contains more genes for the biosynthesis of trp. The enzymes for the synthesis of the amino acid tryptophan are contained in the Trp operon. The structure of this operon is shown below. The trp repressor binds the amino acid tryptophan, the end product of the biosynthesis of tryptophan (trp). As you can see, it has the same structure as the lac operon, but it contains more genes for the biosynthesis of trp.   Application Spotlight: Regulation in Bacteria In this spotlight, we will explore in more detail changes in gene expression (transcription) due to changes in the environment. Eukaryotes have complex regulatory mechanisms; consequently, we will focus on gene regulation in prokaryotes. However, common principles of regulation are used by both prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, and an understanding of regulation in prokaryotes will help you understand eukaryotic regulation in future studies. In bacteria, groups of proteins that are expressed together to execute the same biochemical pathways, are often encoded together in a region of DNA called an operon. Operons allow the cell to control gene expression based upon environmental conditions, such as nutrient availability. In addition to the structural genes (the genes that encode the proteins necessary to execute the specific pathway), operons contain regulatory genes and sequences. Below are the regulatory genes and sequences found in an operon: Promoter: Recall from the previous module that in order for transcription to begin, RNA polymerase must bind to the correct site. The promoter is the DNA sequence, upstream of the structural genes, to which RNA polymerase and other initiation factors recognize and bind. Repressor Gene: Every operon contains a gene that encodes one operon-specific repressor. This repressor molecule can bind specific sequences in the DNA of the operon to block transcription of the structural genes. This is called negative control of gene expression. Operator: The operator is an operon-specific DNA sequence which is directly downstream of the operon promoter. The operator is the DNA sequence to which the repressor can bind to block transcription. A repressors interaction with the operator is controlled by the binding of a small molecule to the repressor. The small molecule is either the compound that enters the pathway (for catabolic, or degradative pathways) or the compound that is produced by the pathway (for anabolic, or synthetic pathways). CAP Site: The CAP site, found only in catabolic pathway operons, is a DNA sequence that is a binding site for the CAP protein. The CAP site and CAP protein are universal to all catabolic operons and not operon-specific. The CAP site is located directly upstream from the promoter. The binding of the CAP protein to the CAP site is regulated by the level of cyclic AMP (cAMP) in the cell. When CAP is bound to the CAP site, transcription of the structural genes is turned on. This is called positive control of gene expression. Regulation of gene expression by operons in prokaryotes is achieved through a balance between positive and negative control. We explore how positive and negative control interact below in the catabolic lac operon and the anabolic Trp operon. The Bacterial Operon. The operon contains the promoter (green box), the operator sequence (red box), and two or more structural genes that code for structural proteins. If the operon is associated with metabolic pathways, the structural proteins would be the enzymes in the pathway. In addition to the genes in the operon, there is a separate gene that codes for the repressor protein, so its transcription is independent of the transcription of the operon. The repressor protein controls the expression of genes in the operon by binding to the operator DNA sequence, blocking the ability of RNA polymerase to transcribe the structural genes (A-C) for the operon. When the repressor is not bound to its operator, RNA polymerase can transcribe the operon and it will produce one long mRNA transcript, containing the coding information for the structural proteins. Lac Operon Bacteria can use a wide variety of carbon sources as fuel to extract energy for growth. Two common carbon sources are the sugars glucose and lactose (milk sugar). Glucose is a monosaccharide containing one six-membered ring, while lactose is a disaccharide made of glucose linked to galactose. It is less efficient for bacteria to use lactose as an energy source because they must take additional steps to convert lactose into a form that can be used to extract energy. Each of these steps requires the synthesis of an enzyme, which is costly to the bacteria. Consequently, bacteria prefer to use glucose rather than lactose as a fuel source when both sugars are present. However, when lactose is present and glucose is not, the bacteria turn on, or synthesize, the enzymes required for lactose metabolism, allowing the bacteria to use lactose for energy. The genes for lactose metabolism are contained in an operon known as the lac operon. The lac operon is controlled by the lac repressor, which is produced from the lacI gene. The lacI gene has its own promoter; consequently, low levels of the lac repressor protein are present all of the time. Three structural genes in the operon, lacZ, lacY, and lacA, encode enzymes required for lactose metabolism. Thus far, we have described what happens when either glucose is present or lactose is present. If both are present, glucose is used first by the bacteria, and only very small amounts of the enzymes for lactose metabolism are made. Complete the following Learn by Doing to understand how glucose turns off the lac operon, even if lactose is present. Regulation of Biosynthetic Pathways The enzymes for the synthesis of the amino acid tryptophan are contained in the Trp operon. The structure of this operon is shown below. The trp repressor binds the amino acid tryptophan, the end product of the biosynthesis of tryptophan (trp). As you can see, it has the same structure as the lac operon, but it contains more genes for the biosynthesis of trp. Assume that there is an operon in E. coli, called the Chol operon, that included the genes A, B and C encoding enzymes necessary for the utilization of cholesterol as an alternative carbon and energy source. Bacteria can use a wide variety of carbon sources as fuel to extract energy for growth. Two common carbon sources are the sugars glucose and lactose (milk sugar). Glucose is a monosaccharide containing one six-membered ring, while lactose is a disaccharide made of glucose linked to galactose. It is less efficient for bacteria to use lactose as an energy source because they must take additional steps to convert lactose into a form that can be used to extract energy. Each of these steps requires the synthesis of an enzyme, which is costly to the bacteria. Consequently, bacteria prefer to use glucose rather than lactose as a fuel source when both sugars are present. However, when lactose is present and glucose is not, the bacteria turn on, or synthesize, the enzymes required for lactose metabolism, allowing the bacteria to use lactose for energy. The genes for lactose metabolism are contained in an operon known as the lac operon. The lac operon is controlled by the lac repressor, which is produced from the lacI gene. The lacI gene has its own promoter; consequently, low levels of the lac repressor protein are present all of the time. Three structural genes in the operon, lacZ, lacY, and lacA, encode enzymes required for lactose metabolism. Thus far, we have described what happens when either glucose is present or lactose is present. If both are present, glucose is used first by the bacteria, and only very small amounts of the enzymes for lactose metabolism are made. Complete the following Learn by Doing to understand how glucose turns off the lac operon, even if lactose is present. Regulation of Biosynthetic Pathways The enzymes for the synthesis of the amino acid tryptophan are contained in the Trp operon. The structure of this operon is shown below. The trp repressor binds the amino acid tryptophan, the end product of the biosynthesis of tryptophan (trp). As you can see, it has the same structure as the lac operon, but it contains more genes for the biosynthesis of trp. The enzymes for the synthesis of the amino acid tryptophan are contained in the Trp operon. The structure of this operon is shown below. The trp repressor binds the amino acid tryptophan, the end product of the biosynthesis of tryptophan (trp). As you can see, it has the same structure as the lac operon, but it contains more genes for the biosynthesis of trp. Assume that there is an operon in E. coli, called the Chol operon, that included the genes A, B and C encoding enzymes necessary for the utilization of cholesterol as an alternative carbon and energy source.   Metabolism Overview Overview of metabolism. The four key pathways, glycolysis, the TCA cycle, electron transport, and ATP synthesis are outlined in yellow. Glucose that is brought into the cell via the glucose transporter can suffer two fates, oxidation or storage as glycogen. Oxidation occurs in glycolysis and the TCA cycle, releasing the carbon atoms in glucose as CO2. Note that oxygen is not used until the end of the electron transport chain. High energy electrons, symbolized as orange balls are carried on organic electron carriers to the electron transport chain. As these electrons move through the four complexes, protons are pumped from the mitochondrial matrix across the inner mitochondrial membrane. As these protons flow back through the membrane via ATP synthase, ATP is generated. Click the radio buttons to show the flow of carbon atoms, electrons, and protons through each pathway.   Photosynthesis 