16. [u'energy', u'relative energies', u'molecules']
   Coupling in Metabolism By the end of this module, students should be able to: Describe how a pathway with a positive Gibbs free energy can be reversed by coupling to an energy releasing reaction. Explain the difference between direct and indirect coupling. A reaction will be spontaneous in the forward direction if the Gibbs free energy for that reaction is less than zero. The same reaction, if run in the reverse direction, will have a positive Gibbs free energy and will therefore be non-spontaneous. If it is necessary to reverse the direction of this reaction to reverse the direction of the pathway, then the sign of the GIbbs free energy for the reverse reaction has to become negative. If you recall, the Gibbs free energy: G = G 0 + RTln [ B ] [ A ] consists of two parts, the standard energy change, Go, and a term that accounts for the non-equilibrium concentrations of [A] and [B]. Consequently, an unfavorable reaction with a positive Gibbs free energy can be made spontaneous by making the sum of these two terms negative by coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable, energy releasing one. The energy releasing reaction provides the necessary energy to change the sign of the Gibbs free energy from positive to negative. There are two forms of coupling, both may be used to ensure a negative Gibbs free energy, direct and indirect coupling. Direct coupling reduces the standard free energy while indirect coupling reduces the second term of the equation. Both of these methods are described in more detail below. Direct coupling In this case a large negative Go for the reaction is created by directly coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable one on the same enzyme. For example, the phosphorylation of glucose is very unfavorable if inorganic phosphate is used as the source of phosphate. The standard energy change of +14 kJ/mol makes the Gibbs energy positive. However, if the unfavorable reaction is coupled to the conversion of ATP to ADP within the active site of the enzyme hexose kinase the 30 kJ of energy released from ATP can be utilized to reduce the standard energy change such that the overall Gibbs free energy becomes negative. The overall reaction is the transfer of phosphate from ATP to glucose, with an overall standard energy change of approximately -15 kJ/mol. Direct coupling: Reaction 1 and 2 are hypothetical half-reactions that sum to give the complete reaction at the bottom of the image. In the actual reaction the enzyme glucose kinase transfers the phospate group directly from ATP to glucose; hydrolysis of the ATP does not occur. Note that the two half-reactions sum to give the complete reaction, both in terms of the compounds involved as well as the overall standard energy change. Indirect coupling. The Gibbs free energy can also become negative by either having a favorable reaction that preceeds the unfavorable one, or a favorable reaction that follows the unfavorable one. In the first case, the favorable preceeding reaction causes the concentration of the substrates for the following unfavorable reaction to be higher than equilibrium, making G negative. For the case of a favorable following reaction, the concentration of the products of the unfavorable reaction are kept to a level that is smaller than the equilibrium concentration, again making G negative. This type of coupling between reactions is referred to as indirect coupling because the coupling between favorable and unfavorable reactions occurs indirectly, via alteration of concentrations of reactants and products. Indirect coupling: In the absence of coupling (left) the conversion of [B] to [C] is uphill energetically, and therefore not favorable. If the preceeding step ([A] to [B]) is very favorable, the concentration of [B] increases to a level above its equilibrium level, which decreases the Gibbs free energy for step [B] to [C]. Alternatively, if the following step ([C] to [D]) is favorable, the concentration of [C] will be lower than its equilbrium level, which also decreases the Gibbs free energy for the step [B] to [C]. The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once.   Coupling in Metabolism By the end of this module, students should be able to: Describe how a pathway with a positive Gibbs free energy can be reversed by coupling to an energy releasing reaction. Explain the difference between direct and indirect coupling. A reaction will be spontaneous in the forward direction if the Gibbs free energy for that reaction is less than zero. The same reaction, if run in the reverse direction, will have a positive Gibbs free energy and will therefore be non-spontaneous. If it is necessary to reverse the direction of this reaction to reverse the direction of the pathway, then the sign of the GIbbs free energy for the reverse reaction has to become negative. If you recall, the Gibbs free energy: G = G 0 + RTln [ B ] [ A ] consists of two parts, the standard energy change, Go, and a term that accounts for the non-equilibrium concentrations of [A] and [B]. Consequently, an unfavorable reaction with a positive Gibbs free energy can be made spontaneous by making the sum of these two terms negative by coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable, energy releasing one. The energy releasing reaction provides the necessary energy to change the sign of the Gibbs free energy from positive to negative. There are two forms of coupling, both may be used to ensure a negative Gibbs free energy, direct and indirect coupling. Direct coupling reduces the standard free energy while indirect coupling reduces the second term of the equation. Both of these methods are described in more detail below. Direct coupling In this case a large negative Go for the reaction is created by directly coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable one on the same enzyme. For example, the phosphorylation of glucose is very unfavorable if inorganic phosphate is used as the source of phosphate. The standard energy change of +14 kJ/mol makes the Gibbs energy positive. However, if the unfavorable reaction is coupled to the conversion of ATP to ADP within the active site of the enzyme hexose kinase the 30 kJ of energy released from ATP can be utilized to reduce the standard energy change such that the overall Gibbs free energy becomes negative. The overall reaction is the transfer of phosphate from ATP to glucose, with an overall standard energy change of approximately -15 kJ/mol. Direct coupling: Reaction 1 and 2 are hypothetical half-reactions that sum to give the complete reaction at the bottom of the image. In the actual reaction the enzyme glucose kinase transfers the phospate group directly from ATP to glucose; hydrolysis of the ATP does not occur. Note that the two half-reactions sum to give the complete reaction, both in terms of the compounds involved as well as the overall standard energy change. Indirect coupling. The Gibbs free energy can also become negative by either having a favorable reaction that preceeds the unfavorable one, or a favorable reaction that follows the unfavorable one. In the first case, the favorable preceeding reaction causes the concentration of the substrates for the following unfavorable reaction to be higher than equilibrium, making G negative. For the case of a favorable following reaction, the concentration of the products of the unfavorable reaction are kept to a level that is smaller than the equilibrium concentration, again making G negative. This type of coupling between reactions is referred to as indirect coupling because the coupling between favorable and unfavorable reactions occurs indirectly, via alteration of concentrations of reactants and products. Indirect coupling: In the absence of coupling (left) the conversion of [B] to [C] is uphill energetically, and therefore not favorable. If the preceeding step ([A] to [B]) is very favorable, the concentration of [B] increases to a level above its equilibrium level, which decreases the Gibbs free energy for step [B] to [C]. Alternatively, if the following step ([C] to [D]) is favorable, the concentration of [C] will be lower than its equilbrium level, which also decreases the Gibbs free energy for the step [B] to [C].   Calculating Free Energy   Calculating Free Energy   Energy Storage in Metabolism The operation of a metabolic pathway produces (catabolic) or consumes (anabolic) energy. There are a number of different forms of energy storage that are found in metabolic pathways. These include: Phosphorylated Compounds Nucleoside triphosphates, such as adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are commonly used to store energy. The addition of an inorganic phosphate group to a nucleotide diphosphate to form the triphosphate requires approximately 30 kJ/mol of energy. The reaction showing the synthesis of ATP from ADP and phosphate is pictured below. Phosphorylation of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) produces adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This reaction requires the input of approximately 30 kJ/mol. Formation of ATP occurs when the negatively charged phosphate group on ADP attacks the electropositive phosphate in inorganic phosphate, forming a phosphate anhydride bond with the release of water (red arrow). ATP can be used to phosphorylate other nucleoside diphosphates with essentially no input of energy, for example: The myth of high-energy phosphate bonds. When a phosphate is released from ATP to form ADP, about 30 kJ/mol of energy is released. It is often stated, incorrectly, that the bond that is broken is "high-energy". In fact, its energy is no different than any other phosphate bond of the same type. The release of energy is due to the fact that the products, ADP and inorganic phosphate, are lower in energy than ATP by 30 kJ/mol. One reason that ATP is higher in energy is due to charge repulsion between the negatively charged phosphate groups. Once the phosphate group is removed, the unfavorable repulsion disappears. Reduced redox carriers.The oxidation of metabolytes usually produces energy, If this energy was not captured in some way, it would be lost as heat. The reduced form of redox carriers, such as NADH and FADH2, are higher in energy than their corresponding oxidized forms, capturing the energy that would otherwise be lost as heat. For example, the oxidation of isocitrate to ketoglutarate releases approximately 70 kJ/mol, 60 of which is captured by converting NAD+ to NADH. High energy thioesters are often produced by oxidative steps. For example, the energy released by the oxidation of an aldehyde is stored in both the reduced form of NAD+ as well in a thioester. The hydrolysis of the thioester can be used to synthesize nucleoside triphosphates or to facilitate the formation of carbon-carbon bonds, as shown below. The oxidation of the aldehyde to the thioester is highlighted in green. CoA is coenzyme A, a nucleotide containing cofactor that is an essential co-substrate for many reactions. Part of the energy of this oxidation, 60 kJ/mol, is captured by the formation of NADH. The energy stored in the thioester can be used to either phosphorylate GDP to form GTP, capturing another 30 kJ/mol. In the case of acetyl-CoA (lower diagram) the thioester facilitates the attachment of the acetyl group to oxaloacetate to form citrate, the first compound in the TCA cycle. Proton gradient The transfer of electrons from NADH and FADH2 to oxygen to form water during the electron transport chain, provides energy for the pumping of protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This is equivalent to pumping water up hill to fill a reservoir. As the protons flow back through the membrane, the energy released is used to generate ATP, in much the same way water generates electricity in a hydroelectric plant.   Thermodynamics Free Energy and Spontaneity Pathways accomplish the net conversion of the starting compounds to the final product of the pathway. During the normal operation of a pathway there is a constant flux of material through the pathway in one direction. Note that many pathways are reversible and operate in the forward or reverse direction, depending on the needs of the organism. The direction of a pathway depends on the energy difference between the starting compounds and final product of the pathway. The pathway will be spontaneous in the direction that causes a decrease in the free energy of the system. Reversing the direction of a pathway requires changing the relative energies of the reactants and products It is useful to have a quantitative way to predict the direction of a pathway given the current environment in the cell. A method of predicting the direction of a reaction was devised by J. Willard Gibbs in 1876 and the quantitative parameter that can be used to predict the direction of a reaction is called the Gibbs free energy. This method is particularly useful because it can be applied to reactions that are not at equilibrium, which is the situation encountered during metabolism. Before we can discuss the Gibbs free energy, we have to discuss standard energies and their relationship to equilibrium positions of reactions. Keep in mind that these discussions relate to the thermodynamic properties of pathways, more specifically the relative energy differences between reactants and products under cellular conditions. The presence of enzymes simply increases the rate of conversion from reactants to products, the enzyme cannot alter the relative energies of these compounds. Equilibria Consider the simple reaction [A] to [B]. If we start with a system that is pure [A] it will spontaneously form some [B] until equilibrium is reached. When a system is at equilibrium, the concentration of products and reactants are constant and it is possible to write an equilibrium constant for the reaction: where, KEQ is: K EQ = [ B ] EQ [ A ] EQ Note that [A] and [B] are at their equilibrium concentrations in this formula. Standard Energy The standard energy change is the energy change when one mole of reactant is converted to one mole of product, it is the energy difference between reactants and products: Go=Gproductso-Greactantso. The standard energy change defines the equilibrium position of a reaction through the following equation: G o = RTln K EQ or K EQ = e G o / RT For the simple reaction of A to B, the fraction of the system in state [A] is: f A = [ A ] [ A ] + [ B ] = 1 1 + K EQ In a similar fashion, the fraction in state [B] is: f B = [ B ] [ A ] [ B ] = K EQ 1 K EQ You can see from the above equations that if the energy of the products are equal to the reactants, then the equilibrium concentration of [B] will be equal to [A]. Mathematically, this can be shown as follows: If the energy of [B] is equal to [A], then Go = 0. Therefore KEQ=1, and fA=1/(1+1) = 0.5 and fB=1/(1+1) = 0.5 What will happen to the relative concentrations of A and B if the energy of form A is lower than B, what will happen if the energy of form A is higher? Use the Learn-by-Doing tutorial below to find out. Gibbs Free Energy The formula for change in the Gibbs free energy in the reaction for the reaction direction [A] to [B] is: G = G 0 + RTln [ B ] [ A ] Note that in this equation, the concentration of [A] and [B] are not necessarily at their equilibrium concentrations. It can be shown that: If G less than 0 then the reaction is not at equilibrium and will proceed spontaneously in the forward direction, A to B. If G greater than 0 then the reaction is also not at equilibrium, but will proceed spontaneously in the reverse direction, B to A. If G=0 the reaction is at equilibrium and the concentrations of reactants and products will not change. You can explore these relationships in the following tutorial. In addition to predicting the direction of the reaction, the absolute value of G, | G |, is the amount of energy released when the concentrations of reactants and products change from their non-equilibrium values to their equilibrium values. What is the Gibbs free energy when the concentration of A is greater than its equilibrium value? In what direction will the reaction flow? From A to B or from B to A? Use the Learn-by-Doing tutorial below to find out. Pathways accomplish the net conversion of the starting compounds to the final product of the pathway. During the normal operation of a pathway there is a constant flux of material through the pathway in one direction. Note that many pathways are reversible and operate in the forward or reverse direction, depending on the needs of the organism. The direction of a pathway depends on the energy difference between the starting compounds and final product of the pathway. The pathway will be spontaneous in the direction that causes a decrease in the free energy of the system. Reversing the direction of a pathway requires changing the relative energies of the reactants and products It is useful to have a quantitative way to predict the direction of a pathway given the current environment in the cell. A method of predicting the direction of a reaction was devised by J. Willard Gibbs in 1876 and the quantitative parameter that can be used to predict the direction of a reaction is called the Gibbs free energy. This method is particularly useful because it can be applied to reactions that are not at equilibrium, which is the situation encountered during metabolism. Before we can discuss the Gibbs free energy, we have to discuss standard energies and their relationship to equilibrium positions of reactions. Keep in mind that these discussions relate to the thermodynamic properties of pathways, more specifically the relative energy differences between reactants and products under cellular conditions. The presence of enzymes simply increases the rate of conversion from reactants to products, the enzyme cannot alter the relative energies of these compounds. Consider the simple reaction [A] to [B]. If we start with a system that is pure [A] it will spontaneously form some [B] until equilibrium is reached. When a system is at equilibrium, the concentration of products and reactants are constant and it is possible to write an equilibrium constant for the reaction: where, KEQ is: K EQ = [ B ] EQ [ A ] EQ Note that [A] and [B] are at their equilibrium concentrations in this formula. The standard energy change is the energy change when one mole of reactant is converted to one mole of product, it is the energy difference between reactants and products: Go=Gproductso-Greactantso. The standard energy change defines the equilibrium position of a reaction through the following equation: G o = RTln K EQ or K EQ = e G o / RT For the simple reaction of A to B, the fraction of the system in state [A] is: f A = [ A ] [ A ] + [ B ] = 1 1 + K EQ In a similar fashion, the fraction in state [B] is: f B = [ B ] [ A ] [ B ] = K EQ 1 K EQ You can see from the above equations that if the energy of the products are equal to the reactants, then the equilibrium concentration of [B] will be equal to [A]. Mathematically, this can be shown as follows: If the energy of [B] is equal to [A], then Go = 0. Therefore KEQ=1, and fA=1/(1+1) = 0.5 and fB=1/(1+1) = 0.5 What will happen to the relative concentrations of A and B if the energy of form A is lower than B, what will happen if the energy of form A is higher? Use the Learn-by-Doing tutorial below to find out. The formula for change in the Gibbs free energy in the reaction for the reaction direction [A] to [B] is: G = G 0 + RTln [ B ] [ A ] Note that in this equation, the concentration of [A] and [B] are not necessarily at their equilibrium concentrations. It can be shown that: If G less than 0 then the reaction is not at equilibrium and will proceed spontaneously in the forward direction, A to B. If G greater than 0 then the reaction is also not at equilibrium, but will proceed spontaneously in the reverse direction, B to A. If G=0 the reaction is at equilibrium and the concentrations of reactants and products will not change. You can explore these relationships in the following tutorial. In addition to predicting the direction of the reaction, the absolute value of G, | G |, is the amount of energy released when the concentrations of reactants and products change from their non-equilibrium values to their equilibrium values. What is the Gibbs free energy when the concentration of A is greater than its equilibrium value? In what direction will the reaction flow? From A to B or from B to A? Use the Learn-by-Doing tutorial below to find out.   Electron Transport and Oxidative Phosphorylation By the end of this module, students should be able to: Explain the role of the four complexes, coenzyme Q, and cytochrome C in electron transport. Identify the pathway of the electrons from NADH to oxygen resulting in the formation of water. Identify the pathway of the electrons from FADH2 to oxygen resulting in the formation of water. Explain what happens when electrons transport through complexes I, III, and IV. Predict whether the free energy stored in the non-equilibrium hydrogen ion gradient is sufficient to sythesize ATP from the transport of 3 protons. Explain ATP synthase and the effects of allosteric changes during proton translocation. The production of ATP from "high-energy" electrons on NADH and FADH2 occurs in two steps, electron transport followed by ATP synthesis. The energy obtained from electron transport is stored as a pH gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The combination of a concentration difference of hydrogen ions and a voltage difference accross this membrane is often referred to as an electrochemical gradient. The electrochemical gradient is a form of potential energy that is utilized by the enzyme ATP synthase to convert ADP to ATP. The coupling between the proton gradient and the chemical synthesis of ATP, was originally proposed by Dr. Peter Michell in 1961 as the chemiosmotic hypothesis. His theory proved to be true, leading to a Nobel prize for his work in 1978. Electron Transport The electron transport chain consists of four multi-protein complexes that are contained within the inner mitochondrial membrane. These complexes remove electrons from NADH or FADH2 molecules that were generated by oxidative processes in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. These high energy compounds ultimately deposit their electrons on oxygen, forming water. The energy that is released by electron transport is stored as a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This proton gradient is used to drive the synthesis of ATP. The hilighted region focusing in on the Electron Transport Chain, part of the complex process of metabolism. Various compounds are used by the electron transport chain to carry electrons. These components include: FAD/FADH2, is a cofactor that is tightly bound to the enzymes in the electron transport complexes. Iron-sulfur centers in the electron transport complexes shuttle electrons by alternating between Fe+2 and Fe+3. Coenzyme Q is an organic non-polar electron carrier that is dissolved within the membrane lipids of the inner mitochondrial membrane. It carries electrons between complex I and III and complex II and III. Cytochrome C is a heme containing protein that is very similar in structure to myoglobin. It is a water soluble protein found in the inter-membrane space. Cytochrome C carries one electron at a time from complex III to complex IV. The organization of the four complexes and electron carriers in the electron transport chain are illustrated in the following diagram: Electron Transport Overview The electron transport chain is contained within the inner membrane of the mitochondria. In addition to the four protein complexes, the location of electron carriers coenzymeQ and cytochrome C are also indicated. Complex I accepts electrons from NADH and complex II accepts electrons from succinate. Complex IV is responsible for transferring the electrons to the final electron acceptor, oxygen. Selecting the button labeled NADH will show the flow of electrons from NADH to complex IV. The button labeled FADH2 will show the path of electrons from succinate to FADH2 in complex II (succinate dehydrogenase), followed by movement of these electrons to complex IV. NADH is oxidized by the electron transport chain by the transfer of the two electrons from NADH to complex I. These electrons are then transferred to coenzyme Q, followed by transfer to complex III. The electrons are then carried by cytochrome C to complex IV, where the electrons are used to reduce oxygen to water. The energy that is released by the transfer of electrons from NADH to water is used to transport a total of 10 protons across the inner membrane. For every pair of electrons, four protons are transported by complex I, four by complex II and two by complex IV. The electrons from FADH2 are first processed by complex II. Complex II is actually succinate dehydrogenase from the TCA cycle. The electron acceptor for succinate, FAD, is tightly bound to the enzyme. Consequently, it is more correct to consider that complex II processes the electrons from succinate, first passing them to FAD and then via iron-sulfur centers to coenzyme Q. The two electrons then follow the same path as those from NADH2, from coenzyme Q to complex III, and then to complex IV via cytochrome C, finally to oxygen to produce water. Since electron transport through complex II does not result in the transport of protons only a total of 6 protons/2 electrons are transported across the inner membrane when succinate is the initial electron donor. In summary: Electrons from NADH and FADH2 are transferred to oxygen, generating water. Electron transport is spontaneous and releases energy. This energy is stored by transporting protons across the inner membrane. Oxidation of NADH results in 10 protons transported across the inner membrane. Oxidation of FADH2 results in 6 protons transported across the inner membrane. This link will take you to a movie providing an alternate representation of the electron transport process. ATP Synthesis The energy that has been stored in the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane cannot be easily utilized by other processes in the cell. It must be converted to a more usable source, such as ATP. The enzyme ATP synthase is responsible for converting the energy stored in the proton gradient to ATP. This enzyme is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and it projects into the matrix. The mechanism of ATP synthase is such that the enzyme generates one ATP molecule every time 3 protons are transferred back to the matrix from the inter-membrane space. Since the standard energy for the formation of ATP from ADP and Pi is +30 kJ/mol the transport of three protons must release at least 30kJ/mol in order to provide enough energy to synthesize ATP. The amount of energy that is stored in the protein gradient can be obtained by calculating the Gibbs free energy. If the products are defined as the protons that have been transported to the matrix, the formula is: G = RT ln [ H + ] IN [ H + ] OUT + ZF where Z is the change on the transported particle, F is Faraday's constant (96,494 Coulomb/mol) and is the voltage difference across the membrane: = V IN V OUT The Gibbs free energy consists of two terms. The first indicates the energy change due to the difference of proton concentration across the membrane. Its form is analogous to the formula give for the transport of glucose across the membrane in glycolysis. The second term accounts for the fact that the energy of a charged particle depends on the voltage. If there is a voltage difference across the membrane then the energy of the proton will depend on its location. Typical proton concentration differences across the inner membrane are approximately 10 fold, with the outside being more acidic. In addition to the concentration difference, there is also an approximately 100 mV voltage difference across the membrane, with the inside being more negative. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy change under these conditions at 300 K is: G = R ( 300 ) ln 1 10 + 1 96494 ( 0 . 1 ) = 5 . 7 9 . 6 kJ mol = 15 . 3 kJ mol Therefore the transport of 3 protons will release 45.9 kJ/mol, which is more than sufficient to generate a single ATP. Mechanism of ATP Synthase The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. The enzyme consists of two separable subunits. The Fo subunit is within the membrane and is responsible for the transfer of protons through the membrane. The F1 subunit extends into the mitochondrial matrix and is responsible for the synthesis of ATP. The F1 subunit is composed of three subunits and three subunits. These six subunits from a spherical structure where the and subunits alternate. The subunit extends from the Fo domain through the center of the - sphere. The subunit rotates 120 degrees every time three protons flows through the Fo domain. The - sphere is prevented from rotating along with the subunit by the b-subunit, which anchors the - sphere to the membrane. The conformation of the - subunits is affected by the relative position of the subunit. Since the gamma subunit rotates 120o, there are three possible conformations of the - subunits: A conformation that has low affinity of nucleotides, i.e. neither ATP or ADP bind. A conformation that has high affinity for ADP plus inorganic phosphate. A conformation that has high affinity for ATP, i.e. ATP is more stable in this conformation than ADP. The cycle of ATP synthesis is as follows: ADP and inorganic phosphate bind to the subunits that have high affinity for these compounds. A three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing a 120o rotation of the -subunit. The rotation of the -subunit causes a conformational change in the - subunits. ATP is more stable in the new conformation of the - subunits, consequently the bound ADP and inorganic phosphate is spontaneously converted to ATP. Another three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing another 120o rotation of the subunit. This rotation causes an additional conformational change of the - subunits, generating the conformation that has low affinity for ATP and ADP, thus the newly synthesized ATP is released. A three additional protons flows through the Fo domain, causing another rotation of subunits. This restores the system to the starting conditions. Complete rotation of the subunit requires the transfer of 9 protons across the membrane. This generates a total of 3 ATP molecules since there are three ADP/ATP binding sites on the F1 domain, one associated with each - subunit. Consequently, only three protons are required to synthesize one ATP. ATP Synthesis Tutorial Click the green arrow or PLAY button to play the animation. The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. The electron transport chain consists of four multi-protein complexes that are contained within the inner mitochondrial membrane. These complexes remove electrons from NADH or FADH2 molecules that were generated by oxidative processes in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. These high energy compounds ultimately deposit their electrons on oxygen, forming water. The energy that is released by electron transport is stored as a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This proton gradient is used to drive the synthesis of ATP. The hilighted region focusing in on the Electron Transport Chain, part of the complex process of metabolism. Various compounds are used by the electron transport chain to carry electrons. These components include: FAD/FADH2, is a cofactor that is tightly bound to the enzymes in the electron transport complexes. Iron-sulfur centers in the electron transport complexes shuttle electrons by alternating between Fe+2 and Fe+3. Coenzyme Q is an organic non-polar electron carrier that is dissolved within the membrane lipids of the inner mitochondrial membrane. It carries electrons between complex I and III and complex II and III. Cytochrome C is a heme containing protein that is very similar in structure to myoglobin. It is a water soluble protein found in the inter-membrane space. Cytochrome C carries one electron at a time from complex III to complex IV. The organization of the four complexes and electron carriers in the electron transport chain are illustrated in the following diagram: Electron Transport Overview The electron transport chain is contained within the inner membrane of the mitochondria. In addition to the four protein complexes, the location of electron carriers coenzymeQ and cytochrome C are also indicated. Complex I accepts electrons from NADH and complex II accepts electrons from succinate. Complex IV is responsible for transferring the electrons to the final electron acceptor, oxygen. Selecting the button labeled NADH will show the flow of electrons from NADH to complex IV. The button labeled FADH2 will show the path of electrons from succinate to FADH2 in complex II (succinate dehydrogenase), followed by movement of these electrons to complex IV. NADH is oxidized by the electron transport chain by the transfer of the two electrons from NADH to complex I. These electrons are then transferred to coenzyme Q, followed by transfer to complex III. The electrons are then carried by cytochrome C to complex IV, where the electrons are used to reduce oxygen to water. The energy that is released by the transfer of electrons from NADH to water is used to transport a total of 10 protons across the inner membrane. For every pair of electrons, four protons are transported by complex I, four by complex II and two by complex IV. The electrons from FADH2 are first processed by complex II. Complex II is actually succinate dehydrogenase from the TCA cycle. The electron acceptor for succinate, FAD, is tightly bound to the enzyme. Consequently, it is more correct to consider that complex II processes the electrons from succinate, first passing them to FAD and then via iron-sulfur centers to coenzyme Q. The two electrons then follow the same path as those from NADH2, from coenzyme Q to complex III, and then to complex IV via cytochrome C, finally to oxygen to produce water. Since electron transport through complex II does not result in the transport of protons only a total of 6 protons/2 electrons are transported across the inner membrane when succinate is the initial electron donor. In summary: Electrons from NADH and FADH2 are transferred to oxygen, generating water. Electron transport is spontaneous and releases energy. This energy is stored by transporting protons across the inner membrane. Oxidation of NADH results in 10 protons transported across the inner membrane. Oxidation of FADH2 results in 6 protons transported across the inner membrane. This link will take you to a movie providing an alternate representation of the electron transport process. The energy that has been stored in the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane cannot be easily utilized by other processes in the cell. It must be converted to a more usable source, such as ATP. The enzyme ATP synthase is responsible for converting the energy stored in the proton gradient to ATP. This enzyme is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and it projects into the matrix. The mechanism of ATP synthase is such that the enzyme generates one ATP molecule every time 3 protons are transferred back to the matrix from the inter-membrane space. Since the standard energy for the formation of ATP from ADP and Pi is +30 kJ/mol the transport of three protons must release at least 30kJ/mol in order to provide enough energy to synthesize ATP. The amount of energy that is stored in the protein gradient can be obtained by calculating the Gibbs free energy. If the products are defined as the protons that have been transported to the matrix, the formula is: G = RT ln [ H + ] IN [ H + ] OUT + ZF where Z is the change on the transported particle, F is Faraday's constant (96,494 Coulomb/mol) and is the voltage difference across the membrane: = V IN V OUT The Gibbs free energy consists of two terms. The first indicates the energy change due to the difference of proton concentration across the membrane. Its form is analogous to the formula give for the transport of glucose across the membrane in glycolysis. The second term accounts for the fact that the energy of a charged particle depends on the voltage. If there is a voltage difference across the membrane then the energy of the proton will depend on its location. Typical proton concentration differences across the inner membrane are approximately 10 fold, with the outside being more acidic. In addition to the concentration difference, there is also an approximately 100 mV voltage difference across the membrane, with the inside being more negative. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy change under these conditions at 300 K is: G = R ( 300 ) ln 1 10 + 1 96494 ( 0 . 1 ) = 5 . 7 9 . 6 kJ mol = 15 . 3 kJ mol Therefore the transport of 3 protons will release 45.9 kJ/mol, which is more than sufficient to generate a single ATP. The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. The enzyme consists of two separable subunits. The Fo subunit is within the membrane and is responsible for the transfer of protons through the membrane. The F1 subunit extends into the mitochondrial matrix and is responsible for the synthesis of ATP. The F1 subunit is composed of three subunits and three subunits. These six subunits from a spherical structure where the and subunits alternate. The subunit extends from the Fo domain through the center of the - sphere. The subunit rotates 120 degrees every time three protons flows through the Fo domain. The - sphere is prevented from rotating along with the subunit by the b-subunit, which anchors the - sphere to the membrane. The conformation of the - subunits is affected by the relative position of the subunit. Since the gamma subunit rotates 120o, there are three possible conformations of the - subunits: A conformation that has low affinity of nucleotides, i.e. neither ATP or ADP bind. A conformation that has high affinity for ADP plus inorganic phosphate. A conformation that has high affinity for ATP, i.e. ATP is more stable in this conformation than ADP. The cycle of ATP synthesis is as follows: ADP and inorganic phosphate bind to the subunits that have high affinity for these compounds. A three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing a 120o rotation of the -subunit. The rotation of the -subunit causes a conformational change in the - subunits. ATP is more stable in the new conformation of the - subunits, consequently the bound ADP and inorganic phosphate is spontaneously converted to ATP. Another three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing another 120o rotation of the subunit. This rotation causes an additional conformational change of the - subunits, generating the conformation that has low affinity for ATP and ADP, thus the newly synthesized ATP is released. A three additional protons flows through the Fo domain, causing another rotation of subunits. This restores the system to the starting conditions. Complete rotation of the subunit requires the transfer of 9 protons across the membrane. This generates a total of 3 ATP molecules since there are three ADP/ATP binding sites on the F1 domain, one associated with each - subunit. Consequently, only three protons are required to synthesize one ATP. ATP Synthesis Tutorial Click the green arrow or PLAY button to play the animation. The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once.   Electron Transport and Oxidative Phosphorylation By the end of this module, students should be able to: Explain the role of the four complexes, coenzyme Q, and cytochrome C in electron transport. Identify the pathway of the electrons from NADH to oxygen resulting in the formation of water. Identify the pathway of the electrons from FADH2 to oxygen resulting in the formation of water. Explain what happens when electrons transport through complexes I, III, and IV. Predict whether the free energy stored in the non-equilibrium hydrogen ion gradient is sufficient to sythesize ATP from the transport of 3 protons. Explain ATP synthase and the effects of allosteric changes during proton translocation. The production of ATP from "high-energy" electrons on NADH and FADH2 occurs in two steps, electron transport followed by ATP synthesis. The energy obtained from electron transport is stored as a pH gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The combination of a concentration difference of hydrogen ions and a voltage difference accross this membrane is often referred to as an electrochemical gradient. The electrochemical gradient is a form of potential energy that is utilized by the enzyme ATP synthase to convert ADP to ATP. The coupling between the proton gradient and the chemical synthesis of ATP, was originally proposed by Dr. Peter Michell in 1961 as the chemiosmotic hypothesis. His theory proved to be true, leading to a Nobel prize for his work in 1978. Electron Transport The electron transport chain consists of four multi-protein complexes that are contained within the inner mitochondrial membrane. These complexes remove electrons from NADH or FADH2 molecules that were generated by oxidative processes in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. These high energy compounds ultimately deposit their electrons on oxygen, forming water. The energy that is released by electron transport is stored as a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This proton gradient is used to drive the synthesis of ATP. The hilighted region focusing in on the Electron Transport Chain, part of the complex process of metabolism. Various compounds are used by the electron transport chain to carry electrons. These components include: FAD/FADH2, is a cofactor that is tightly bound to the enzymes in the electron transport complexes. Iron-sulfur centers in the electron transport complexes shuttle electrons by alternating between Fe+2 and Fe+3. Coenzyme Q is an organic non-polar electron carrier that is dissolved within the membrane lipids of the inner mitochondrial membrane. It carries electrons between complex I and III and complex II and III. Cytochrome C is a heme containing protein that is very similar in structure to myoglobin. It is a water soluble protein found in the inter-membrane space. Cytochrome C carries one electron at a time from complex III to complex IV. The organization of the four complexes and electron carriers in the electron transport chain are illustrated in the following diagram: Electron Transport Overview The electron transport chain is contained within the inner membrane of the mitochondria. In addition to the four protein complexes, the location of electron carriers coenzymeQ and cytochrome C are also indicated. Complex I accepts electrons from NADH and complex II accepts electrons from succinate. Complex IV is responsible for transferring the electrons to the final electron acceptor, oxygen. Selecting the button labeled NADH will show the flow of electrons from NADH to complex IV. The button labeled FADH2 will show the path of electrons from succinate to FADH2 in complex II (succinate dehydrogenase), followed by movement of these electrons to complex IV. NADH is oxidized by the electron transport chain by the transfer of the two electrons from NADH to complex I. These electrons are then transferred to coenzyme Q, followed by transfer to complex III. The electrons are then carried by cytochrome C to complex IV, where the electrons are used to reduce oxygen to water. The energy that is released by the transfer of electrons from NADH to water is used to transport a total of 10 protons across the inner membrane. For every pair of electrons, four protons are transported by complex I, four by complex II and two by complex IV. The electrons from FADH2 are first processed by complex II. Complex II is actually succinate dehydrogenase from the TCA cycle. The electron acceptor for succinate, FAD, is tightly bound to the enzyme. Consequently, it is more correct to consider that complex II processes the electrons from succinate, first passing them to FAD and then via iron-sulfur centers to coenzyme Q. The two electrons then follow the same path as those from NADH2, from coenzyme Q to complex III, and then to complex IV via cytochrome C, finally to oxygen to produce water. Since electron transport through complex II does not result in the transport of protons only a total of 6 protons/2 electrons are transported across the inner membrane when succinate is the initial electron donor. In summary: Electrons from NADH and FADH2 are transferred to oxygen, generating water. Electron transport is spontaneous and releases energy. This energy is stored by transporting protons across the inner membrane. Oxidation of NADH results in 10 protons transported across the inner membrane. Oxidation of FADH2 results in 6 protons transported across the inner membrane. This link will take you to a movie providing an alternate representation of the electron transport process. ATP Synthesis The energy that has been stored in the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane cannot be easily utilized by other processes in the cell. It must be converted to a more usable source, such as ATP. The enzyme ATP synthase is responsible for converting the energy stored in the proton gradient to ATP. This enzyme is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and it projects into the matrix. The mechanism of ATP synthase is such that the enzyme generates one ATP molecule every time 3 protons are transferred back to the matrix from the inter-membrane space. Since the standard energy for the formation of ATP from ADP and Pi is +30 kJ/mol the transport of three protons must release at least 30kJ/mol in order to provide enough energy to synthesize ATP. The amount of energy that is stored in the protein gradient can be obtained by calculating the Gibbs free energy. If the products are defined as the protons that have been transported to the matrix, the formula is: G = RT ln [ H + ] IN [ H + ] OUT + ZF where Z is the change on the transported particle, F is Faraday's constant (96,494 Coulomb/mol) and is the voltage difference across the membrane: = V IN V OUT The Gibbs free energy consists of two terms. The first indicates the energy change due to the difference of proton concentration across the membrane. Its form is analogous to the formula give for the transport of glucose across the membrane in glycolysis. The second term accounts for the fact that the energy of a charged particle depends on the voltage. If there is a voltage difference across the membrane then the energy of the proton will depend on its location. Typical proton concentration differences across the inner membrane are approximately 10 fold, with the outside being more acidic. In addition to the concentration difference, there is also an approximately 100 mV voltage difference across the membrane, with the inside being more negative. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy change under these conditions at 300 K is: G = R ( 300 ) ln 1 10 + 1 96494 ( 0 . 1 ) = 5 . 7 9 . 6 kJ mol = 15 . 3 kJ mol Therefore the transport of 3 protons will release 45.9 kJ/mol, which is more than sufficient to generate a single ATP. Mechanism of ATP Synthase The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. The enzyme consists of two separable subunits. The Fo subunit is within the membrane and is responsible for the transfer of protons through the membrane. The F1 subunit extends into the mitochondrial matrix and is responsible for the synthesis of ATP. The F1 subunit is composed of three subunits and three subunits. These six subunits from a spherical structure where the and subunits alternate. The subunit extends from the Fo domain through the center of the - sphere. The subunit rotates 120 degrees every time three protons flows through the Fo domain. The - sphere is prevented from rotating along with the subunit by the b-subunit, which anchors the - sphere to the membrane. The conformation of the - subunits is affected by the relative position of the subunit. Since the gamma subunit rotates 120o, there are three possible conformations of the - subunits: A conformation that has low affinity of nucleotides, i.e. neither ATP or ADP bind. A conformation that has high affinity for ADP plus inorganic phosphate. A conformation that has high affinity for ATP, i.e. ATP is more stable in this conformation than ADP. The cycle of ATP synthesis is as follows: ADP and inorganic phosphate bind to the subunits that have high affinity for these compounds. A three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing a 120o rotation of the -subunit. The rotation of the -subunit causes a conformational change in the - subunits. ATP is more stable in the new conformation of the - subunits, consequently the bound ADP and inorganic phosphate is spontaneously converted to ATP. Another three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing another 120o rotation of the subunit. This rotation causes an additional conformational change of the - subunits, generating the conformation that has low affinity for ATP and ADP, thus the newly synthesized ATP is released. A three additional protons flows through the Fo domain, causing another rotation of subunits. This restores the system to the starting conditions. Complete rotation of the subunit requires the transfer of 9 protons across the membrane. This generates a total of 3 ATP molecules since there are three ADP/ATP binding sites on the F1 domain, one associated with each - subunit. Consequently, only three protons are required to synthesize one ATP. ATP Synthesis Tutorial Click the green arrow or PLAY button to play the animation. The electron transport chain consists of four multi-protein complexes that are contained within the inner mitochondrial membrane. These complexes remove electrons from NADH or FADH2 molecules that were generated by oxidative processes in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. These high energy compounds ultimately deposit their electrons on oxygen, forming water. The energy that is released by electron transport is stored as a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This proton gradient is used to drive the synthesis of ATP. The hilighted region focusing in on the Electron Transport Chain, part of the complex process of metabolism. Various compounds are used by the electron transport chain to carry electrons. These components include: FAD/FADH2, is a cofactor that is tightly bound to the enzymes in the electron transport complexes. Iron-sulfur centers in the electron transport complexes shuttle electrons by alternating between Fe+2 and Fe+3. Coenzyme Q is an organic non-polar electron carrier that is dissolved within the membrane lipids of the inner mitochondrial membrane. It carries electrons between complex I and III and complex II and III. Cytochrome C is a heme containing protein that is very similar in structure to myoglobin. It is a water soluble protein found in the inter-membrane space. Cytochrome C carries one electron at a time from complex III to complex IV. The organization of the four complexes and electron carriers in the electron transport chain are illustrated in the following diagram: Electron Transport Overview The electron transport chain is contained within the inner membrane of the mitochondria. In addition to the four protein complexes, the location of electron carriers coenzymeQ and cytochrome C are also indicated. Complex I accepts electrons from NADH and complex II accepts electrons from succinate. Complex IV is responsible for transferring the electrons to the final electron acceptor, oxygen. Selecting the button labeled NADH will show the flow of electrons from NADH to complex IV. The button labeled FADH2 will show the path of electrons from succinate to FADH2 in complex II (succinate dehydrogenase), followed by movement of these electrons to complex IV. NADH is oxidized by the electron transport chain by the transfer of the two electrons from NADH to complex I. These electrons are then transferred to coenzyme Q, followed by transfer to complex III. The electrons are then carried by cytochrome C to complex IV, where the electrons are used to reduce oxygen to water. The energy that is released by the transfer of electrons from NADH to water is used to transport a total of 10 protons across the inner membrane. For every pair of electrons, four protons are transported by complex I, four by complex II and two by complex IV. The electrons from FADH2 are first processed by complex II. Complex II is actually succinate dehydrogenase from the TCA cycle. The electron acceptor for succinate, FAD, is tightly bound to the enzyme. Consequently, it is more correct to consider that complex II processes the electrons from succinate, first passing them to FAD and then via iron-sulfur centers to coenzyme Q. The two electrons then follow the same path as those from NADH2, from coenzyme Q to complex III, and then to complex IV via cytochrome C, finally to oxygen to produce water. Since electron transport through complex II does not result in the transport of protons only a total of 6 protons/2 electrons are transported across the inner membrane when succinate is the initial electron donor. In summary: Electrons from NADH and FADH2 are transferred to oxygen, generating water. Electron transport is spontaneous and releases energy. This energy is stored by transporting protons across the inner membrane. Oxidation of NADH results in 10 protons transported across the inner membrane. Oxidation of FADH2 results in 6 protons transported across the inner membrane. This link will take you to a movie providing an alternate representation of the electron transport process. The energy that has been stored in the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane cannot be easily utilized by other processes in the cell. It must be converted to a more usable source, such as ATP. The enzyme ATP synthase is responsible for converting the energy stored in the proton gradient to ATP. This enzyme is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and it projects into the matrix. The mechanism of ATP synthase is such that the enzyme generates one ATP molecule every time 3 protons are transferred back to the matrix from the inter-membrane space. Since the standard energy for the formation of ATP from ADP and Pi is +30 kJ/mol the transport of three protons must release at least 30kJ/mol in order to provide enough energy to synthesize ATP. The amount of energy that is stored in the protein gradient can be obtained by calculating the Gibbs free energy. If the products are defined as the protons that have been transported to the matrix, the formula is: G = RT ln [ H + ] IN [ H + ] OUT + ZF where Z is the change on the transported particle, F is Faraday's constant (96,494 Coulomb/mol) and is the voltage difference across the membrane: = V IN V OUT The Gibbs free energy consists of two terms. The first indicates the energy change due to the difference of proton concentration across the membrane. Its form is analogous to the formula give for the transport of glucose across the membrane in glycolysis. The second term accounts for the fact that the energy of a charged particle depends on the voltage. If there is a voltage difference across the membrane then the energy of the proton will depend on its location. Typical proton concentration differences across the inner membrane are approximately 10 fold, with the outside being more acidic. In addition to the concentration difference, there is also an approximately 100 mV voltage difference across the membrane, with the inside being more negative. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy change under these conditions at 300 K is: G = R ( 300 ) ln 1 10 + 1 96494 ( 0 . 1 ) = 5 . 7 9 . 6 kJ mol = 15 . 3 kJ mol Therefore the transport of 3 protons will release 45.9 kJ/mol, which is more than sufficient to generate a single ATP. The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. The enzyme consists of two separable subunits. The Fo subunit is within the membrane and is responsible for the transfer of protons through the membrane. The F1 subunit extends into the mitochondrial matrix and is responsible for the synthesis of ATP. The F1 subunit is composed of three subunits and three subunits. These six subunits from a spherical structure where the and subunits alternate. The subunit extends from the Fo domain through the center of the - sphere. The subunit rotates 120 degrees every time three protons flows through the Fo domain. The - sphere is prevented from rotating along with the subunit by the b-subunit, which anchors the - sphere to the membrane. The conformation of the - subunits is affected by the relative position of the subunit. Since the gamma subunit rotates 120o, there are three possible conformations of the - subunits: A conformation that has low affinity of nucleotides, i.e. neither ATP or ADP bind. A conformation that has high affinity for ADP plus inorganic phosphate. A conformation that has high affinity for ATP, i.e. ATP is more stable in this conformation than ADP. The cycle of ATP synthesis is as follows: ADP and inorganic phosphate bind to the subunits that have high affinity for these compounds. A three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing a 120o rotation of the -subunit. The rotation of the -subunit causes a conformational change in the - subunits. ATP is more stable in the new conformation of the - subunits, consequently the bound ADP and inorganic phosphate is spontaneously converted to ATP. Another three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing another 120o rotation of the subunit. This rotation causes an additional conformational change of the - subunits, generating the conformation that has low affinity for ATP and ADP, thus the newly synthesized ATP is released. A three additional protons flows through the Fo domain, causing another rotation of subunits. This restores the system to the starting conditions. Complete rotation of the subunit requires the transfer of 9 protons across the membrane. This generates a total of 3 ATP molecules since there are three ADP/ATP binding sites on the F1 domain, one associated with each - subunit. Consequently, only three protons are required to synthesize one ATP. ATP Synthesis Tutorial Click the green arrow or PLAY button to play the animation.   Energy and Matter Matter Matter is traditionally defined as anything that has mass and takes up space. Matter is made of atoms. Matter is reused and recycled in living systems. To live and grow, organisms and cells must take in (or absorb, or ingest) certain forms of matter. Any matter an organism needs but cannot make for itself is considered a nutrient for that organism. Not all matter can be used by an organism, which is why all living systems release other forms of matter. When an organism or cell releases (or excretes) matter, the excreted matter is considered waste for that organism. Wolves Fighting a Grizzly Bear By Adolph Murie, 1944, National Park Service. Source: Wikipedia. Both nutrients and wastes are made of atoms; they occupy space and have mass. The atoms retain their identity through the processes of life, even though they can be combined with other atoms in different ways. Consider the picture above. When a wolf is eaten by a bear, the atoms that made up the wolf become part of the bear. The matter in the wolf that is not absorbed or used for growth by the bear becomes waste. The bear excretes this waste in urine, in feces, and in its exhaled breath. Atom for atom, all the matter that was the wolf can be accounted for, and it is recycled through the ecosystem. The waste produced by one organism can provide nutrients to another. Energy Energy can be defined as the capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter. Energy does not have mass and it does not take up space, but it can be measured in terms of what it does. Energy comes in many forms, including heat, chemical potential energy, kinetic energy of motion, and light. Energy is required for all organisms to maintain homeostasis, grow, and reproduce. Living Organisms Emit Heat Human leaking heat energy into his environment. Photo on left was taken with a heat-sensitive camera; photo on right with a normal camera sensitive to visible light. On left, warmer regions are brighter yellow or orange. The plastic bag draped over the mans arm is transparent to heat radiation. His eyeglasses, however, tend to absorb or deflect heat. It is important at this point to clarify the difference between matter and energy and to highlight a form of energy that is very important in biology. Food contains nutrients that are useful to humans. These nutrients take up space and can be weighed. Imagine a serving of breakfast cereal. You can weigh and measure the volume of its nutrients, and on food labels nutrient content (the amount of fat, carbohydrates, protein, etc.) is reported in grams. But the same serving of cereal also has a property called chemical potential energy. This is energy stored in the structure of molecules that can be converted to other forms of energy by a chemical reaction. If the cereal is burned (a chemical reaction), its molecules will react with oxygen gas. Atoms will change partners and the molecules will become much simpler. In the process, energy will be released as heat and light. We can determine the amount of energy in the cereal by burning it and measuring how much heat is released in the process. Food Nutrition Label Source: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration In biology, chemical potential energy is a key form of energy. It is measured in units called calories. When were talking about energy, well say the calories stored in ... or the chemical potential energy of ... a substance. We are talking about what the substance can do if it is put through a chemical reaction, like burning, that will release its stored energy. Returning to the breakfast cereal example, nutrition labels indicate the chemical potential energy of food by listing the calories per serving. Energy and Matter Behave Differently Energy and matter move through living systems in different ways. Energy flows through living systems, changing forms as it goes. For example, the energy in sunlight is captured by green plants, which use this energy to build sugar molecules. The energy from the sun is now stored in the sugar and when an organism eats the sugar, the stored energy can be harvested and used to do work. The energy flows through the system; it is never recycled. Matter, on the other hand, cycles within living systems. For example, the atoms in the sugar molecule start out as nutrients, and will ultimately become waste. The waste might become nutrients for something else. Those same atoms will be used over and over again. Energy flow and nutrient cycling are themes in biology at every level. Matter is traditionally defined as anything that has mass and takes up space. Matter is made of atoms. Matter is reused and recycled in living systems. To live and grow, organisms and cells must take in (or absorb, or ingest) certain forms of matter. Any matter an organism needs but cannot make for itself is considered a nutrient for that organism. Not all matter can be used by an organism, which is why all living systems release other forms of matter. When an organism or cell releases (or excretes) matter, the excreted matter is considered waste for that organism. Wolves Fighting a Grizzly Bear By Adolph Murie, 1944, National Park Service. Source: Wikipedia. Both nutrients and wastes are made of atoms; they occupy space and have mass. The atoms retain their identity through the processes of life, even though they can be combined with other atoms in different ways. Consider the picture above. When a wolf is eaten by a bear, the atoms that made up the wolf become part of the bear. The matter in the wolf that is not absorbed or used for growth by the bear becomes waste. The bear excretes this waste in urine, in feces, and in its exhaled breath. Atom for atom, all the matter that was the wolf can be accounted for, and it is recycled through the ecosystem. The waste produced by one organism can provide nutrients to another. Energy can be defined as the capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter. Energy does not have mass and it does not take up space, but it can be measured in terms of what it does. Energy comes in many forms, including heat, chemical potential energy, kinetic energy of motion, and light. Energy is required for all organisms to maintain homeostasis, grow, and reproduce. Living Organisms Emit Heat Human leaking heat energy into his environment. Photo on left was taken with a heat-sensitive camera; photo on right with a normal camera sensitive to visible light. On left, warmer regions are brighter yellow or orange. The plastic bag draped over the mans arm is transparent to heat radiation. His eyeglasses, however, tend to absorb or deflect heat. It is important at this point to clarify the difference between matter and energy and to highlight a form of energy that is very important in biology. Food contains nutrients that are useful to humans. These nutrients take up space and can be weighed. Imagine a serving of breakfast cereal. You can weigh and measure the volume of its nutrients, and on food labels nutrient content (the amount of fat, carbohydrates, protein, etc.) is reported in grams. But the same serving of cereal also has a property called chemical potential energy. This is energy stored in the structure of molecules that can be converted to other forms of energy by a chemical reaction. If the cereal is burned (a chemical reaction), its molecules will react with oxygen gas. Atoms will change partners and the molecules will become much simpler. In the process, energy will be released as heat and light. We can determine the amount of energy in the cereal by burning it and measuring how much heat is released in the process. Food Nutrition Label Source: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration In biology, chemical potential energy is a key form of energy. It is measured in units called calories. When were talking about energy, well say the calories stored in ... or the chemical potential energy of ... a substance. We are talking about what the substance can do if it is put through a chemical reaction, like burning, that will release its stored energy. Returning to the breakfast cereal example, nutrition labels indicate the chemical potential energy of food by listing the calories per serving. Energy and matter move through living systems in different ways. Energy flows through living systems, changing forms as it goes. For example, the energy in sunlight is captured by green plants, which use this energy to build sugar molecules. The energy from the sun is now stored in the sugar and when an organism eats the sugar, the stored energy can be harvested and used to do work. The energy flows through the system; it is never recycled. Matter, on the other hand, cycles within living systems. For example, the atoms in the sugar molecule start out as nutrients, and will ultimately become waste. The waste might become nutrients for something else. Those same atoms will be used over and over again. Energy flow and nutrient cycling are themes in biology at every level.   Flow of Energy and Cycling of Matter All cells (or organisms) take in forms of matter called nutrients and release chemical waste products. Nutrients and wastes are made of atoms; they occupy space and have mass. Organisms also must take in and use some form of energy to grow, move, etc. and release waste energy as heat. Energy can be defined as the capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter. It cannot be weighed and does not take up space, but it can be measured in terms of what it does The nutrients in a sandwich can be weighed on a scale. The energy in the same sandwich can be measured by burning it, capturing the released heat in water, and measuring how much the waters temperature increases as a result. Humans and other consumer must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms. Food provides nutrients; we get the building blocks for our bodies from the food we consume. Food also provides chemical energy (calories) that can be used for movement, growth, etc. Producers such as plants do not eat or absorb complex food molecules. Instead, they absorb very simple nutrients like water and carbon dioxide gas. They then use energy from sunlight to make their own food from these simple nutrients. All organisms - both consumers and producers - process foods and absorb useful energy and building blocks. The leftovers are released as simple wastes to the environment. The atoms that make up matter are very durable and they flow in an endlessly repeated cycle between producers, consumers, and the nonliving environment. All Life Forms Participate in Nutrient Cycling Nutrients (matter) are cycled among life forms. Producers absorb simple molecules such as carbon dioxide and build complex organic food molecules. After using these food molecules, they release some simple inorganic nutrients as wastes. Consumers eat or absorb complex organic food and release simple wastes. You might think that energy is recycled like this, too. Lets see if that is correct. Living Organisms Emit Heat Human leaking heat energy into his environment. Photo on left was taken with a heat-sensitive camera; photo on right with a normal camera sensitive to visible light. On left, warmer regions are brighter yellow or orange. The plastic back draped over the mans arm is transparent to heat radiation. His eyeglasses, however, tend to absorb or deflect heat. As you have seen, the flow of energy is in one direction. Nearly all the energy available to organisms within the biosphere comes from the sun (solar energy) and ultimately dissipates back to space as heat. Nutrients Cycle, Energy Flows Energy flows through life as seen in the black glowing arrows. Nutrient cycling is shown as before with blue arrows. Energy enters producers as sunlight, is transferred to consumers as calories in food, and exits both producers and consumers as heat. Energy flow and nutrient cycling are themes in biology at every level. In your body, energy from food is processed and released, explaining the existence of body heat. Excess energy intake leads to weight gain that can threaten your health. A proper balance of nutrients is required to give you the building blocks you need to grow and maintain your bodys tissues. Chemical waste products must be removed by organs like your liver, kidneys, and lungs. At the ecosystem level, energy flow explains why food chains are usually short and predators are often rare: energy is released as heat as it passes through each feeding level in an ecosystem. Nutrient cycling traces how consumers and producers interact to alter the chemistry of the air, water, and soil. By studying nutrient cycles, we can appreciate the roles of algae and plants in making our air breathable. We learn how bacteria make soil fertile. In energy flow we see chains that tie us to the sun; in nutrient cycling we see ties that bind all living things to each other. Interdependence and interconnectedness of life Have you ever played a game of Jenga, where you try to remove one block at a time from a tower structure without causing the entire tower to collapse? Life is much the same. At levels from the individual to the biosphere, life is interconnected. Your trillions of cells are intimately dependent on each other for survival. Your cells are specialized and your life requires a massive team effort. If any one of your major organs were to suddenly fail, you might die very quickly. Moreover, your health also depends on trillions upon trillions of bacterial cells that live in your large intestine and on other moist surfaces throughout your body. They provide your cells with vitamins, help keep out invaders, and may even influence your mood. So your body itself is a community of interdependent cells. An ecosystem consists of all the organisms living within a defined area along with the abiotic components of that particular environment. Within an ecosystem, organisms interact with each other in helpful and harmful ways. Some types of organisms play overlapping roles with other species (e.g. six species of oak tree may have similar, if not identical, roles in a forest). Others, however, play unique and essential roles that other organisms depend upon for their survival. For example, in a Colorado forest researchers found that a species of sapsucker (similar to a woodpecker) played a vital role in providing nesting holes and food for many other species. To learn more: Gretchen Daily and others, 1993. To learn more: Double keystone bird in a keystone species complex. All cells (or organisms) take in forms of matter called nutrients and release chemical waste products. Nutrients and wastes are made of atoms; they occupy space and have mass. Organisms also must take in and use some form of energy to grow, move, etc. and release waste energy as heat. Energy can be defined as the capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter. It cannot be weighed and does not take up space, but it can be measured in terms of what it does The nutrients in a sandwich can be weighed on a scale. The energy in the same sandwich can be measured by burning it, capturing the released heat in water, and measuring how much the waters temperature increases as a result. Humans and other consumer must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms. Food provides nutrients; we get the building blocks for our bodies from the food we consume. Food also provides chemical energy (calories) that can be used for movement, growth, etc. Producers such as plants do not eat or absorb complex food molecules. Instead, they absorb very simple nutrients like water and carbon dioxide gas. They then use energy from sunlight to make their own food from these simple nutrients. All organisms - both consumers and producers - process foods and absorb useful energy and building blocks. The leftovers are released as simple wastes to the environment. The atoms that make up matter are very durable and they flow in an endlessly repeated cycle between producers, consumers, and the nonliving environment. All Life Forms Participate in Nutrient Cycling Nutrients (matter) are cycled among life forms. Producers absorb simple molecules such as carbon dioxide and build complex organic food molecules. After using these food molecules, they release some simple inorganic nutrients as wastes. Consumers eat or absorb complex organic food and release simple wastes. You might think that energy is recycled like this, too. Lets see if that is correct. Living Organisms Emit Heat Human leaking heat energy into his environment. Photo on left was taken with a heat-sensitive camera; photo on right with a normal camera sensitive to visible light. On left, warmer regions are brighter yellow or orange. The plastic back draped over the mans arm is transparent to heat radiation. His eyeglasses, however, tend to absorb or deflect heat. As you have seen, the flow of energy is in one direction. Nearly all the energy available to organisms within the biosphere comes from the sun (solar energy) and ultimately dissipates back to space as heat. Nutrients Cycle, Energy Flows Energy flows through life as seen in the black glowing arrows. Nutrient cycling is shown as before with blue arrows. Energy enters producers as sunlight, is transferred to consumers as calories in food, and exits both producers and consumers as heat. Energy flow and nutrient cycling are themes in biology at every level. In your body, energy from food is processed and released, explaining the existence of body heat. Excess energy intake leads to weight gain that can threaten your health. A proper balance of nutrients is required to give you the building blocks you need to grow and maintain your bodys tissues. Chemical waste products must be removed by organs like your liver, kidneys, and lungs. At the ecosystem level, energy flow explains why food chains are usually short and predators are often rare: energy is released as heat as it passes through each feeding level in an ecosystem. Nutrient cycling traces how consumers and producers interact to alter the chemistry of the air, water, and soil. By studying nutrient cycles, we can appreciate the roles of algae and plants in making our air breathable. We learn how bacteria make soil fertile. In energy flow we see chains that tie us to the sun; in nutrient cycling we see ties that bind all living things to each other. Have you ever played a game of Jenga, where you try to remove one block at a time from a tower structure without causing the entire tower to collapse? Life is much the same. At levels from the individual to the biosphere, life is interconnected. Your trillions of cells are intimately dependent on each other for survival. Your cells are specialized and your life requires a massive team effort. If any one of your major organs were to suddenly fail, you might die very quickly. Moreover, your health also depends on trillions upon trillions of bacterial cells that live in your large intestine and on other moist surfaces throughout your body. They provide your cells with vitamins, help keep out invaders, and may even influence your mood. So your body itself is a community of interdependent cells. An ecosystem consists of all the organisms living within a defined area along with the abiotic components of that particular environment. Within an ecosystem, organisms interact with each other in helpful and harmful ways. Some types of organisms play overlapping roles with other species (e.g. six species of oak tree may have similar, if not identical, roles in a forest). Others, however, play unique and essential roles that other organisms depend upon for their survival. For example, in a Colorado forest researchers found that a species of sapsucker (similar to a woodpecker) played a vital role in providing nesting holes and food for many other species. To learn more: Gretchen Daily and others, 1993. To learn more: Double keystone bird in a keystone species complex.   Energy Flow We have seen how food chains, trophic levels, and food webs can be used to describe how energy and materials move through an ecosystem. Although they are not as realistic as food webs, food chains and trophic levels do provide us with some important insights. They help us understand, for example, why top predators are rare and why meat costs more than grain. All organisms require energy for growth, reproduction, and metabolism. But as energy flows through a food web, much of it is lost at each transfer along the way. Lets trace how energy moves through a simple ecosystem consisting of tomato plants, caterpillars, and birds. Transfer 1: sunlight  tomato plant. Most of the sunlight energy that reaches the plant is reflected or absorbed and re-emitted as heat. Some is captured by photosynthesis. Most of this is used by the plant for aerobic respiration and ATP generation; ultimately this energy is released as heat. Only about 1% of the incoming solar energy is stored as calories in the molecules within the tissues of the growing plant. Energy transfer from the sun to producers Of the available solar energy (100%), producers capture and store only about 1% as growth that is then available as food calories to primary consumers in the ecosystem. The rest of the energy (99%) is reflected as light or released as heat. Transfer 2: tomato plant  caterpillar. Much of the energy in the leaf material eaten by a caterpillar is not digested and is excreted in feces. Of the energy that is absorbed, most is used in aerobic respiration and is released as heat. Only about 10% is stored as calories in the molecules (fats, proteins, etc.) that make up the tissues of the caterpillar. Transfer 3: caterpillar  bird. Some of the energy in the caterpillar is excreted in the birds feces. Most of what is absorbed is used in aerobic respiration and is released as heat. Only about 10% is stored as calories in the tissues of the bird. Energy transfer through consumers Of the food calories ingested, consumers store only about 10% as growth that is then available as food calories to consumers in the next trophic level. The rest is excreted in feces (calories in undigested food) or is released as heat. If you are a bird-eating consumer such as a snake or hawk, very little energy is available to you. Based on the estimates above, you would have access to only 0.01% of the solar energy that fuels the ecosystem as a whole. As you can see, only about 1% of incoming solar energy is stored as calories in the tissues of growing photosynthetic producers. This energy is then passed up to higher trophic levels through a series of transfers. On average, only about 10% of the available energy in one trophic level is incorporated and stored as calories in the bodies of the next level up. The rest of the energy is released undigested in feces or is dissipated as heat. The result is that all ecosystems show a pattern known as the energy pyramid in which energy availability decreases with increasing trophic level. The bottom of the pyramid contains producers (usually plants or algae). Each trophic level of consumers (level 2 and above) becomes progressively smaller. The amount of energy available to consumers at the top of the pyramid is much smaller that what is available to organisms at lower levels. The diagram below shows each trophic level as a block of color. In keeping with real patterns as seen in many ecosystems, each blocks area is 10% or one-tenth that of the preceding block. That leaves mighty slim pickings for level 5! Ecosystem energy pyramid A realistically scaled energy pyramid. Blocks are scaled so that their area shows the amount of energy available to each trophic level. 90% of energy is lost as heat or waste with each transfer in a food chain. In real ecosystems, energy availability can be measured in many different ways. The mass of organisms at each trophic level can be measured, or their total annual calorie requirements can be estimated. In either case, the overall energy pyramid pattern remains quite consistent. This helps to explain why huge hunting grounds support only small numbers of top-level predators such as killer whales, great white sharks, or tigers. The energy pyramid also has implications for humans. Our diet is very flexible. Strict vegetarians live on trophic level 2. Those who eat a lot of animal products live closer to trophic level 3. When grain is fed to animals much of its calorie content is used by the animals themselves, and only a small fraction is available to us in the food that is produced. Therefore people who eat a diet rich in animal products generally have a greater total environmental impactin terms of crops consumed, fertilizers used, land area farmed, etc.than those who eat plant foods. And as seen in the largely vegetarian traditional diets of rural China or India, a given land area can support more people at lower cost if they live on trophic level 2. Energy enters ecosystems as sunlight and dissipates from all living things as heat. Producers (trophic level 1) have access to the greatest amount of energy (sunlight). As they grow, they store up food calories that supply all consumers with energy. Consumers feed on producers directly (trophic level 2) or feed on each other through a series of transfers that can be described as a food chain. The amount of energy available to consumers declines by about 90% with each transfer, so top predators at the end of long food chains tend to be rare.   Application Spotlight: ATP In this module you learned that nucleotides are the monomers that make up the nucleic acid polymers. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a nucleotide. It consists of a single adenosine (the base adenine and the sugar ribose), linked to three phosphate ions. ATP has an essential function: it is the universal energy source; it acts as a general energy source for most cellular activities. Photosynthetic organisms (primarily plants and bacteria) get their energy from the sun. Animals get their energy second- or third-hand from digesting plants and other organisms (i.e., the food and other nutrients we eat). Regardless of the source, for living organisms energy is converted to the chemical bond energy contained in the ATP molecule. Cells of all organisms make ATP by breaking down carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. ATP is a relatively unstable molecule; consequently, it is never used for the long-term storage of energy in the cell. This job goes to other more stable compounds, like fats and sugars. However, ATP is specialized for direct and rapid transfers of energy. The bond between the second and the third phosphates can be broken in a reaction producing ADP (adenosine diphosphate) with 'di' indicating two phosphate groups. When the bond between the first and second phosphates is broken, energy is released, and produces AMP (adenosine monophosphate) with mono indicating one phosphate group. Energy is releaased when ATP reacts with water to form ADP or AMP. The energy released in these reactions can be used for chemical reactions (such as protein synthesis), molecule transport, or cellular work (such as muscle contractions). Conversely, if there is a surplus of energy, specialized reactions can produce ATP from ADP and a phosphate, storing the energy temporarily before being used for other processes. The ADP generated when energy is released is recycled back to ATP using energy gained from the metabolic process. Large amounts of ATP are consumed while providing energy for biological functions. You will learn more details about how energy is stored in ATP and released in the unit dedicated to metabolism. How much ATP is consumed in an average day? To answer this question, you first need to know that in chemistry, atoms or molecules are often counted. Sometimes you use a word to represent the quantity of something. For example, you might call 12 cookies a dozen cookies. You can count cookies by the dozen. In chemistry, we count molecules by the mole. While one dozen is equal to 12, one mole is equal to 6.02 x 10^23. In other words, one mole of molecules is equal to 602,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 molecules!   Unit Summary: Metabolism In this unit you learned about one of the key features of life: the ability to transform energy and matter. Energy comes in different forms: light energy, potential energy in chemical bonds, heat, and mechanical energy of motion. Living organisms convert one form of energy into another in a stepwise matter using metabolic pathways. All metabolic pathways rely on enzymes (catalysts) to speed up chemical reactions and are carefully regulated. Two types of pathways can be distinguished based on how they change the complexity of molecules: catabolic and anabolic pathways. Catabolic pathways break down large, complex molecules into simple ones and release energy. Anabolic pathways build complex molecules from simple building blocks. The central anabolic pathway enabling most life on Earth is photosynthesis. Photosynthetic organisms (plants, algae, and cyanobacteria) use light energy to build sugar molecules from carbon dioxide and water. In this way, they effectively convert light energy from the sun into the chemical bond energy of sugar molecules. Sugar is a good medium-term energy storage molecule, but is not directly useful for doing work in cells. To extract useful energy from sugar, cells rely on two major types of catabolic pathways: cellular respiration and fermentation. Cellular respiration involves the mitochondria and requires oxygen gas as an input. Fermentation does not require oxygen and occurs in the cytoplasm. In both of these pathways, some of the energy released by the breakdown of sugar molecules is captured in chemical bonds within ATP molecules. ATP is a special molecule used by cells as their energy currency. ATP supplies energy for other cellular processes: cell movement and division, membrane transport, and anabolic pathways enabling growth. Anabolic pathways use energy stored in ATP for building complex molecules from simpler ones. Photosynthesis and cellular respiration create a cycle of materials and enable the flow of energy to most life on Earth. Living organisms that do not do photosynthesis indirectly depend on the sun as the ultimate source of energy, because they derive their energy from food that is biological in origin. Although consumers may eat each other, the energy in organic matter can eventually be traced back to photosynthetic producers. In addition, the oxygen generated as a waste product by photosynthesis is a vital input to cellular respiration. Metabolism is essential to all life and has many important applications to human health. Errors in regulation of metabolism affect energy balance of living organisms and may result in health problems, such as diabetes and obesity. Before proceeding to take the Metabolism quiz, reflect upon the learning objectives. Do you think you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of these objectives? If so, you will be ready for the assessment. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each objective. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions to your instructor when you are finished. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each objective. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions to your instructor when you are finished.   Unit Summary: Metabolism In this unit you learned about one of the key features of life: the ability to transform energy and matter. Energy comes in different forms: light energy, potential energy in chemical bonds, heat, and mechanical energy of motion. Living organisms convert one form of energy into another in a stepwise matter using metabolic pathways. All metabolic pathways rely on enzymes (catalysts) to speed up chemical reactions and are carefully regulated. Two types of pathways can be distinguished based on how they change the complexity of molecules: catabolic and anabolic pathways. Catabolic pathways break down large, complex molecules into simple ones and release energy. Anabolic pathways build complex molecules from simple building blocks. The central anabolic pathway enabling most life on Earth is photosynthesis. Photosynthetic organisms (plants, algae, and cyanobacteria) use light energy to build sugar molecules from carbon dioxide and water. In this way, they effectively convert light energy from the sun into the chemical bond energy of sugar molecules. Sugar is a good medium-term energy storage molecule, but is not directly useful for doing work in cells. To extract useful energy from sugar, cells rely on two major types of catabolic pathways: cellular respiration and fermentation. Cellular respiration involves the mitochondria and requires oxygen gas as an input. Fermentation does not require oxygen and occurs in the cytoplasm. In both of these pathways, some of the energy released by the breakdown of sugar molecules is captured in chemical bonds within ATP molecules. ATP is a special molecule used by cells as their energy currency. ATP supplies energy for other cellular processes: cell movement and division, membrane transport, and anabolic pathways enabling growth. Anabolic pathways use energy stored in ATP for building complex molecules from simpler ones. Photosynthesis and cellular respiration create a cycle of materials and enable the flow of energy to most life on Earth. Living organisms that do not do photosynthesis indirectly depend on the sun as the ultimate source of energy, because they derive their energy from food that is biological in origin. Although consumers may eat each other, the energy in organic matter can eventually be traced back to photosynthetic producers. In addition, the oxygen generated as a waste product by photosynthesis is a vital input to cellular respiration. Metabolism is essential to all life and has many important applications to human health. Errors in regulation of metabolism affect energy balance of living organisms and may result in health problems, such as diabetes and obesity. Before proceeding to take the Metabolism quiz, reflect upon the learning objectives. Do you think you could demonstrate your knowledge of each of these objectives? If so, you will be ready for the assessment. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each objective. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions to your instructor when you are finished. Before taking the unit assessment, please complete the following self-assessment. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each objective. You will also have the opportunity to submit questions to your instructor when you are finished.   Introduction to Metabolism The cell is the fundamental unit of life. It is the first level of organization that presents all the properties of life. In "The Cell" unit, you learned about the different structures that make up a cell. Implicit in that knowledge was the notion of cells as continuously changing and dynamic entities; cells: grow, rebuild, repair, reproduce, and react to the external environment. All of these functions require energy. Energy provides the fuel needed to sustain living systems. This energy enables organisms to carry out complex processes, including the maintenance of homeostasis. Life captures, stores and uses energy through the process of metabolism, which is the sum of all the chemical reactions that take place in an organism. All living organisms  from bacteria to trees to humans  are composed of molecules. To make a cell, many molecules must be combined, and it takes energy to build these complex structures. Covalent bonds hold these molecules together, and the chemical bonds contain energy associated with the force that holds two atoms together. As you know, some bonds are relatively weak and unstable. When they are replaced by stronger, more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released that can be captured by the cell and used to do work. In cells, certain high-energy molecules contain many unstable bonds and are used for fuel. When these molecules are broken down into simpler molecules with more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released. In this unit, you will learn how cells manage to capture this energy and use it to do work (e.g., power movement or build new macromolecules). Energy and carbon flow through the biosphere in a tightly coupled manner. The coupling between energy and carbon is accomplished within an organism through the process known as metabolism. Metabolism is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical reactions, each of which is catalyzed by an enzyme (protein catalyst). A chemical reaction is a chemical change in which new molecules are formed from existing molecules. Metabolism builds bigger molecules from smaller ones, and takes molecules apart to use the atoms and energy stored in them. The compounds that are internal to a metabolic pathway are referred to as intermediates in the pathway. A number of pathways, such as those related to energy production, are essential to life and are found in all cells. Although specialized cells may possess different pathways, there are common characteristics that apply to most pathways. These will be covered in the discussion on "Common Characteristics of Metabolic Pathways." In the Energy module, you will learn about adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the universal energy carrier in cells, and about how energy is transformed and transferred during metabolic reactions. Metabolic pathways are either anabolic or catabolic. Anabolic pathways involve the use of energy and simple organic building blocks to create more complex molecules. Catabolic pathways convert complex molecules to simpler ones, releasing energy for use by the organism. In the Pathways and Regulation module, you will learn the differences between catabolic and anabolic pathways. The cell is the fundamental unit of life. It is the first level of organization that presents all the properties of life. In "The Cell" unit, you learned about the different structures that make up a cell. Implicit in that knowledge was the notion of cells as continuously changing and dynamic entities; cells: grow, rebuild, repair, reproduce, and react to the external environment. All of these functions require energy. Energy provides the fuel needed to sustain living systems. This energy enables organisms to carry out complex processes, including the maintenance of homeostasis. Life captures, stores and uses energy through the process of metabolism, which is the sum of all the chemical reactions that take place in an organism. All living organisms  from bacteria to trees to humans  are composed of molecules. To make a cell, many molecules must be combined, and it takes energy to build these complex structures. Covalent bonds hold these molecules together, and the chemical bonds contain energy associated with the force that holds two atoms together. As you know, some bonds are relatively weak and unstable. When they are replaced by stronger, more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released that can be captured by the cell and used to do work. In cells, certain high-energy molecules contain many unstable bonds and are used for fuel. When these molecules are broken down into simpler molecules with more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released. In this unit, you will learn how cells manage to capture this energy and use it to do work (e.g., power movement or build new macromolecules). Energy and carbon flow through the biosphere in a tightly coupled manner. The coupling between energy and carbon is accomplished within an organism through the process known as metabolism. Metabolism is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical reactions, each of which is catalyzed by an enzyme (protein catalyst). A chemical reaction is a chemical change in which new molecules are formed from existing molecules. Metabolism builds bigger molecules from smaller ones, and takes molecules apart to use the atoms and energy stored in them. The compounds that are internal to a metabolic pathway are referred to as intermediates in the pathway. A number of pathways, such as those related to energy production, are essential to life and are found in all cells. Although specialized cells may possess different pathways, there are common characteristics that apply to most pathways. These will be covered in the discussion on "Common Characteristics of Metabolic Pathways." In the Energy module, you will learn about adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the universal energy carrier in cells, and about how energy is transformed and transferred during metabolic reactions. Metabolic pathways are either anabolic or catabolic. Anabolic pathways involve the use of energy and simple organic building blocks to create more complex molecules. Catabolic pathways convert complex molecules to simpler ones, releasing energy for use by the organism. In the Pathways and Regulation module, you will learn the differences between catabolic and anabolic pathways.   Flow of Energy in the Biosphere Most life on Earth is fueled by solar energy through the process of photosynthesis. Photosynthetic organisms use sunlight to make organic molecules from simple raw materials (carbon dioxide and water). Cellular respiration and other processes break down organic molecules and use the energy released to build ATP molecules. ATP then transfers energy to drive many important processes in cells including movement, transport, and synthesis. In this way, the energy from the sun is transformed to chemical energy in molecules such as glucose and ATP. Eventually energy is released in forms like motion, heat, sound, or light. Each chemical transformation process releases heat as a byproduct. In fact, most of the energy is lost as heat, only a small fraction is used to do work. This heat can be useful for organisms to regulate their internal temperatures. Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are the most common metabolic pathways. Together they form a cycle comprising the general flow of energy through the biosphere. Sunlight provides the essential source of energy. Plants and other photosynthetic organisms capture this energy, and through a chemical reaction with carbon dioxide and water, the photosynthesis process converts the light energy to chemical energy, and produces glucose and oxygen. Organisms ingest the glucose and oxygen, and through the process of cellular respiration (i.e., aerobic respiration), break down these large molecules producing carbon dioxide and water. The outputs of cellular respiration then become the raw materials for photosynthesis.   Catabolic and Anabolic Reactions What is Metabolism? Living organisms consume food, in the form of carbohydrates, fats, and amino acids, to live. The process of metabolism breaks these complex biomolecules into simple molecules with the release of energy. The most common form of energy is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This high energy phosphorylated compound is used as a energy source in many cellular processes and for bio-mechanical functions, such as muscle contraction or ion transport across membranes. The resultant compounds and energy released from food are used to synthesize complex molecules for the specialized needs of the cell or organism. Metabolism is the sum of all chemical reactions within a living organism. A chemical reaction is a chemical change in which new molecules are formed from existing molecules. Reactions that release energy are called exergonic (exer refers to out and gonic refers to energy, so these are energy out reactions). Reactions that require energy are called endergonic (energy in). Exergonic reactions can be used to power endergonic reactions. For example, building ATP from ADP and a phosphate molecule requires energy (it is an endergonic reaction). The transformation of ingested food to energy and simple compounds, or the synthesis of complex molecules, is performed by a series of enzymatic reactions. Collectively, these enzymes, and their substrates and products, are referred to as a metabolic pathway. Technically, metabolic pathways are ordered sets of chemical reactions that occur within a cell to modify an initial molecule to form another product; enzymes catalyze (or increase) the rate of reaction. Metabolic pathways are catabolic (break-down molecules) or anabolic (synthesize or combine molecules) and result in molecular products which can be used by the cell immediately, used to initiate another chemical reaction, or stored in the cell. You will explore catabolism and anabolism further in the next sections. Catabolic Reactions Catabolic reactions (also called catabolism) break down larger, more complex molecules into smaller molecules and release energy in the process. The smaller end products of a catabolic reaction may be released as waste or they may be fed into other reactions. The energy that is released by catabolic reactions can be captured and used in many ways. Some of the energy is released as heat and increases the temperature of the cell. Sometimes the energy is stored in the chemical bonds of another molecule. And sometimes it can be used to do work, such as movement of cellular machinery to power the active transport of materials across cell membranes. Catabolic pathways generally are degradative, releasing energy and electrons from oxidative processes; Metabolism of Glucose i.e., the electrons, which are carried on organic electron carriers, can be used to generate additional energy, or can be used for synthetic purposes. Catabolic reactions are central to biological processes such as cellular respiration and the digestion of food molecules. Cellular respiration is catabolic because it takes glucose (a complex molecule with 6 carbons) and reduces it to carbon dioxide (each with only one carbon) and water (oxygen joined to two hydrogens). Some of the energy released by this process is captured in ATP, which can be stored for later use. Digestion of protein is also a catabolic reaction. It takes a very large protein molecule and breaks it down into several smaller polypeptides, then dismantles the polypeptides to yield individual amino acids. Catabolic Reactions Release Energy and Reduce Complexity In the figure above, a larger molecule on the left is broken down into smaller and simpler components. As high-energy bonds are broken and replaced by lower-energy bonds, energy is released. Some of this energy may be captured to do cellular work. Anabolic Reactions Anabolic reactions (also referred to as "anabolism") use energy to build more complex molecules from relatively simple raw materials. Synthetic, or anabolic pathways consume energy and are generally reductive, requiring electrons. Anabolic and catabolic sound similar but are opposites. To remember the difference, it may help to think about how anabolic steroids promote the buildup of muscle mass. All of the complex molecules of life  carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, nucleic acids  are generated by anabolic reactions. Anabolic reactions are central to processes like photosynthesis, protein synthesis, and DNA replication. At this point, you may wonder why the cell has to break down complex molecules in order to build them up again. Different cells use and require different biomolecules for their specialized functions. For example, carbohydrates are good sources of energy. In plants, carbohydrates are usually stored as starch. In animals, they are stored as glycogen. Both are polymers of glucose, but they have different structures, and an animal cell cannot readily store or access starch. When an athlete carbo-loads the evening before a race, starches from foods like pasta are digested to simple sugars in a catabolic reaction. They are then rebuilt as glycogen (in an anabolic reaction) in the muscles and liver. That way, there is some extra energy stored and easily accessible for the muscle cells to use for the big race. Biomolecules are broken down to raw materials, then rebuilt in a different form to meet the needs of the organism. One molecule that is unique to your cells is DNA. No other organism (except an identical twin) has the same DNA as you, so your cells need to build it anew in order to pass it on to the next generation Photosynthesis is an anabolic process youll learn more about in this unit. Protein synthesis is an amazing feat of anabolism. Protein chains (polypeptides) are produced by linking together relatively simple amino acid monomers. In one polypeptide, thousands of amino acids may be strung together, and several different polypeptides may fold and bind to each other to form a large and complex protein molecule. Anabolic Reactions Use Energy to Build Complex Molecules In the figure above, several smaller components are joined by bonds to form larger, more complex molecules. Energy inputs are required to do this work. Characteristics of catabolic and anabolic reactions are summarized in the table below. Catabolic and Anabolic Processes Catabolic Reactions Anabolic Reactions Energy releasing reactions Energy requiring reactions Breakdown of large molecules to small molecules Join small molecules to form large molecules Ingested food is the source of molecules Synthesize molecules essential to life Living organisms consume food, in the form of carbohydrates, fats, and amino acids, to live. The process of metabolism breaks these complex biomolecules into simple molecules with the release of energy. The most common form of energy is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This high energy phosphorylated compound is used as a energy source in many cellular processes and for bio-mechanical functions, such as muscle contraction or ion transport across membranes. The resultant compounds and energy released from food are used to synthesize complex molecules for the specialized needs of the cell or organism. Metabolism is the sum of all chemical reactions within a living organism. A chemical reaction is a chemical change in which new molecules are formed from existing molecules. Reactions that release energy are called exergonic (exer refers to out and gonic refers to energy, so these are energy out reactions). Reactions that require energy are called endergonic (energy in). Exergonic reactions can be used to power endergonic reactions. For example, building ATP from ADP and a phosphate molecule requires energy (it is an endergonic reaction). The transformation of ingested food to energy and simple compounds, or the synthesis of complex molecules, is performed by a series of enzymatic reactions. Collectively, these enzymes, and their substrates and products, are referred to as a metabolic pathway. Technically, metabolic pathways are ordered sets of chemical reactions that occur within a cell to modify an initial molecule to form another product; enzymes catalyze (or increase) the rate of reaction. Metabolic pathways are catabolic (break-down molecules) or anabolic (synthesize or combine molecules) and result in molecular products which can be used by the cell immediately, used to initiate another chemical reaction, or stored in the cell. You will explore catabolism and anabolism further in the next sections. Catabolic reactions (also called catabolism) break down larger, more complex molecules into smaller molecules and release energy in the process. The smaller end products of a catabolic reaction may be released as waste or they may be fed into other reactions. The energy that is released by catabolic reactions can be captured and used in many ways. Some of the energy is released as heat and increases the temperature of the cell. Sometimes the energy is stored in the chemical bonds of another molecule. And sometimes it can be used to do work, such as movement of cellular machinery to power the active transport of materials across cell membranes. Catabolic pathways generally are degradative, releasing energy and electrons from oxidative processes; Metabolism of Glucose i.e., the electrons, which are carried on organic electron carriers, can be used to generate additional energy, or can be used for synthetic purposes. Catabolic reactions are central to biological processes such as cellular respiration and the digestion of food molecules. Cellular respiration is catabolic because it takes glucose (a complex molecule with 6 carbons) and reduces it to carbon dioxide (each with only one carbon) and water (oxygen joined to two hydrogens). Some of the energy released by this process is captured in ATP, which can be stored for later use. Digestion of protein is also a catabolic reaction. It takes a very large protein molecule and breaks it down into several smaller polypeptides, then dismantles the polypeptides to yield individual amino acids. Catabolic Reactions Release Energy and Reduce Complexity In the figure above, a larger molecule on the left is broken down into smaller and simpler components. As high-energy bonds are broken and replaced by lower-energy bonds, energy is released. Some of this energy may be captured to do cellular work. Anabolic reactions (also referred to as "anabolism") use energy to build more complex molecules from relatively simple raw materials. Synthetic, or anabolic pathways consume energy and are generally reductive, requiring electrons. Anabolic and catabolic sound similar but are opposites. To remember the difference, it may help to think about how anabolic steroids promote the buildup of muscle mass. All of the complex molecules of life  carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, nucleic acids  are generated by anabolic reactions. Anabolic reactions are central to processes like photosynthesis, protein synthesis, and DNA replication. At this point, you may wonder why the cell has to break down complex molecules in order to build them up again. Different cells use and require different biomolecules for their specialized functions. For example, carbohydrates are good sources of energy. In plants, carbohydrates are usually stored as starch. In animals, they are stored as glycogen. Both are polymers of glucose, but they have different structures, and an animal cell cannot readily store or access starch. When an athlete carbo-loads the evening before a race, starches from foods like pasta are digested to simple sugars in a catabolic reaction. They are then rebuilt as glycogen (in an anabolic reaction) in the muscles and liver. That way, there is some extra energy stored and easily accessible for the muscle cells to use for the big race. Biomolecules are broken down to raw materials, then rebuilt in a different form to meet the needs of the organism. One molecule that is unique to your cells is DNA. No other organism (except an identical twin) has the same DNA as you, so your cells need to build it anew in order to pass it on to the next generation Photosynthesis is an anabolic process youll learn more about in this unit. Protein synthesis is an amazing feat of anabolism. Protein chains (polypeptides) are produced by linking together relatively simple amino acid monomers. In one polypeptide, thousands of amino acids may be strung together, and several different polypeptides may fold and bind to each other to form a large and complex protein molecule. Anabolic Reactions Use Energy to Build Complex Molecules In the figure above, several smaller components are joined by bonds to form larger, more complex molecules. Energy inputs are required to do this work.   ATP Moves Energy ATP Carries Energy from Catabolic Reactions to Anabolic Reactions Life requires energy to accomplish its anabolic reactions. This energy cannot be made from nothing, because energy cannot be created or destroyed. But energy can be transferred and transformed. Energy that is available to the cell must somehow be packaged in useful form and delivered where it is needed. This problem is solved through chemical transfers of energy from catabolic reactions to energy carriers and then from the energy carriers to the substrates that are joined in anabolic reactions. Lifes universal energy carrier is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP acts as a shuttle that transfers energy from catabolic reactions that release energy from complex molecules (such as cellular respiration) to the anabolic reactions that consume energy (such as protein synthesis). The energy released from catabolic reactions can be stored for later use through the formation of ATP by combining ADP plus a phosphate group. Then, when energy is required for anabolic reactions, ATP can be broken down into ADP and a phosphate group, releasing energy that was stored in the phosphate bond. Protein Synthesis / Cellular Respiration Processes Check your understanding of how energy is shuttled from catabolic reactions (which release energy) to anabolic reactions (which require energy). Start by looking at the diagram below. The big red and yellow arrows are indicating how energy flows between the chemical reactions. Cellular respiration is shown on top, and protein synthesis is shown on the bottom. See if you can predict the labels that match the numbers. Examine the above diagram. Major processes in the Protein Synthesis/Cellular Respiration Cycle are labeled with a number. Life requires energy to accomplish its anabolic reactions. This energy cannot be made from nothing, because energy cannot be created or destroyed. But energy can be transferred and transformed. Energy that is available to the cell must somehow be packaged in useful form and delivered where it is needed. This problem is solved through chemical transfers of energy from catabolic reactions to energy carriers and then from the energy carriers to the substrates that are joined in anabolic reactions. Lifes universal energy carrier is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP acts as a shuttle that transfers energy from catabolic reactions that release energy from complex molecules (such as cellular respiration) to the anabolic reactions that consume energy (such as protein synthesis). The energy released from catabolic reactions can be stored for later use through the formation of ATP by combining ADP plus a phosphate group. Then, when energy is required for anabolic reactions, ATP can be broken down into ADP and a phosphate group, releasing energy that was stored in the phosphate bond. Protein Synthesis / Cellular Respiration Processes Check your understanding of how energy is shuttled from catabolic reactions (which release energy) to anabolic reactions (which require energy). Start by looking at the diagram below. The big red and yellow arrows are indicating how energy flows between the chemical reactions. Cellular respiration is shown on top, and protein synthesis is shown on the bottom. See if you can predict the labels that match the numbers. Examine the above diagram. Major processes in the Protein Synthesis/Cellular Respiration Cycle are labeled with a number.   ATP Structure Adenosine triphosphate, or ATP, is an organic molecule that acts as the direct energy source for almost all cellular activities. ATP consists of a single adenosine molecule (composed of an adenine bound to a ribose sugar) linked to three phosphate ions. ATP consists of a single adenosine molecule (green rectangle) linked to three phosphate ions (orange circles). ATP is a relatively unstable molecule. Consequently it is never used for the long-term storage of energy in the cell. This job goes to other more stable compounds, like fats and sugars. ATP is specialized for direct and rapid transfers of energy. It is because of this instability that ATP is such a good energy currency for the cell (its easy to spend this energy). ATP is like cash, while long-term energy storage molecules (such as fats and sugars) are more like a savings account.   Hydrolysis of ATP Hydrolysis of ATP Releases Energy ATP is an important molecule in biological systems because of its high energy phosphate bonds. Energy is stored as chemical energy. Energy is released when ATP reacts with water to form ADP or AMP. Here's how: Cells gain energy stored in ATP by transferring the terminal phosphate group. The chemical bond between the last two phosphates is unstable, and reactions that involve the removal of the terminal (last) phosphate release energy. This bond can be broken in a reaction involving water. This reaction is called a hydrolysis reaction ("hydro" means "water" and "lysis" means "separation"; together they mean "using water to separate"). The products of this reaction are inorganic phosphate (P) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP), which has only two phosphate groups. Taken together, ADP and P are more stable than ATP. The net result of ATP hydrolysis is the release of energy. This process is illustrated in the animation below. Hydrolysis of ATP releases energy by breaking down ATP into ADP and an inorganic phosphate. Building ATP from ADP and an inorganic phosphate requires the input of energy in a condensation reaction. ATP, the molecule with the higher energy content, can react to form ADP + P. This chemical reaction can also be reversed and, in so doing, cells replenish ATP. ADP + P can combine to form ATP, a reaction referred to as a condensation reaction since two molecules are condensed into one. We know the first reaction (ATP  ADP + P) releases energy. Therefore, the second reaction (ADP + P  ATP) requires energy. The opposing reactions are like using and charging a rechargeable battery. When you use the energy stored in the rechargeable battery, it is like using up ATP (ATP hydrolysis). When you recharge the battery, you must put energy in (by plugging it into the electrical socket). This is like ATP formation, which is usually fueled by chemical energy extracted from sugar or fats. Comparing ADP and ATP Virtually all the activities of the cell are powered by the energy released when ATP loses its terminal phosphate. For example, ATP hydrolysis provides the energy needed to form complex molecules from simpler ones (synthesis). ATP can also transfer energy by making proteins change shape when ATP is converted to ADP. When proteins change shape, their microscopic movements can add up to macroscopic motion, such as occurs when entire muscles contract. Similarly, ATP can transfer energy to specialized transport proteins embedded in the cell membrane and enable materials to be pumped in or out of the cell, against their concentration gradients (active transport). ATP is an important molecule in biological systems because of its high energy phosphate bonds. Energy is stored as chemical energy. Energy is released when ATP reacts with water to form ADP or AMP. Here's how: Cells gain energy stored in ATP by transferring the terminal phosphate group. The chemical bond between the last two phosphates is unstable, and reactions that involve the removal of the terminal (last) phosphate release energy. This bond can be broken in a reaction involving water. This reaction is called a hydrolysis reaction ("hydro" means "water" and "lysis" means "separation"; together they mean "using water to separate"). The products of this reaction are inorganic phosphate (P) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP), which has only two phosphate groups. Taken together, ADP and P are more stable than ATP. The net result of ATP hydrolysis is the release of energy. This process is illustrated in the animation below. Hydrolysis of ATP releases energy by breaking down ATP into ADP and an inorganic phosphate. Building ATP from ADP and an inorganic phosphate requires the input of energy in a condensation reaction. ATP, the molecule with the higher energy content, can react to form ADP + P. This chemical reaction can also be reversed and, in so doing, cells replenish ATP. ADP + P can combine to form ATP, a reaction referred to as a condensation reaction since two molecules are condensed into one. We know the first reaction (ATP  ADP + P) releases energy. Therefore, the second reaction (ADP + P  ATP) requires energy. The opposing reactions are like using and charging a rechargeable battery. When you use the energy stored in the rechargeable battery, it is like using up ATP (ATP hydrolysis). When you recharge the battery, you must put energy in (by plugging it into the electrical socket). This is like ATP formation, which is usually fueled by chemical energy extracted from sugar or fats. Comparing ADP and ATP Virtually all the activities of the cell are powered by the energy released when ATP loses its terminal phosphate. For example, ATP hydrolysis provides the energy needed to form complex molecules from simpler ones (synthesis). ATP can also transfer energy by making proteins change shape when ATP is converted to ADP. When proteins change shape, their microscopic movements can add up to macroscopic motion, such as occurs when entire muscles contract. Similarly, ATP can transfer energy to specialized transport proteins embedded in the cell membrane and enable materials to be pumped in or out of the cell, against their concentration gradients (active transport).   Why ATP Hydrolysis Releases Energy Change in Potential Energy with the Formation and Breakdown of ATP The energy difference between ATP and ADP is largely due to the interaction between the negatively charged phosphate groups in each molecule. You may remember that unlike charges (+ and -) attract each other, while like charges (+ and +; or - and -) repel each other. Energy is therefore required to move two negative charges close to each other, which is what happens when ATP is made from ADP and phosphate. This is similar to the way in which energy is required to bring the two north poles of a bar magnet together. Examine the following figure, which illustrates the change in energy found within a chemical system as a phosphate ion is slowly brought closer to an ADP molecule. As the negatively charged phosphate gets closer to the negatively charged ADP molecule, more energy is required to overcome the particles' natural tendency to repel each other. These diagrams illustrate the change in energy as a negatively charged phosphate approaches negatively charged ADP during ATP synthesis. As the phosphate moves closer to the ADP (from diagram 1 to diagram 4), the energy rises because like charges try to repel each other. When the phosphate is close (4), a large amount of potential energy has been stored in the ATP molecule. This energy is released when ATP is hydrolyzed and the newly formed phosphate moves away. This process is similar to rolling a ball up a hill. Energy is required to get the ball to the top of the hill and this energy exists as potential energy. However, when the ball is released, it quickly rolls down the hill. The energy that was used to push the ball up the hill is released as kinetic energy. The energy difference between ATP and ADP is largely due to the interaction between the negatively charged phosphate groups in each molecule. You may remember that unlike charges (+ and -) attract each other, while like charges (+ and +; or - and -) repel each other. Energy is therefore required to move two negative charges close to each other, which is what happens when ATP is made from ADP and phosphate. This is similar to the way in which energy is required to bring the two north poles of a bar magnet together. Examine the following figure, which illustrates the change in energy found within a chemical system as a phosphate ion is slowly brought closer to an ADP molecule. As the negatively charged phosphate gets closer to the negatively charged ADP molecule, more energy is required to overcome the particles' natural tendency to repel each other. These diagrams illustrate the change in energy as a negatively charged phosphate approaches negatively charged ADP during ATP synthesis. As the phosphate moves closer to the ADP (from diagram 1 to diagram 4), the energy rises because like charges try to repel each other. When the phosphate is close (4), a large amount of potential energy has been stored in the ATP molecule. This energy is released when ATP is hydrolyzed and the newly formed phosphate moves away. This process is similar to rolling a ball up a hill. Energy is required to get the ball to the top of the hill and this energy exists as potential energy. However, when the ball is released, it quickly rolls down the hill. The energy that was used to push the ball up the hill is released as kinetic energy.   Coupling in Metabolism A reaction will be spontaneous in the forward direction if the Gibbs free energy for that reaction is less than zero. The same reaction, if run in the reverse direction, will have a positive Gibbs free energy and will therefore be non-spontaneous. If it is necessary to reverse the direction of this reaction to reverse the direction of the pathway, then the sign of the GIbbs free energy for the reverse reaction has to become negative. If you recall, the Gibbs free energy: G = G 0 + RTln [ B ] [ A ] consists of two parts, the standard energy change, Go, and a term that accounts for the non-equilibrium concentrations of [A] and [B]. Consequently, an unfavorable reaction with a positive Gibbs free energy can be made spontaneous by making the sum of these two terms negative by coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable, energy releasing one. The energy releasing reaction provides the necessary energy to change the sign of the Gibbs free energy from positive to negative. There are two forms of coupling, both may be used to ensure a negative Gibbs free energy, direct and indirect coupling. Direct coupling reduces the standard free energy while indirect coupling reduces the second term of the equation. Both of these methods are described in more detail below. Direct coupling In this case a large negative Go for the reaction is created by directly coupling the unfavorable reaction to a favorable one on the same enzyme. For example, the phosphorylation of glucose is very unfavorable if inorganic phosphate is used as the source of phosphate. The standard energy change of +14 kJ/mol makes the Gibbs energy positive. However, if the unfavorable reaction is coupled to the conversion of ATP to ADP within the active site of the enzyme hexose kinase the 30 kJ of energy released from ATP can be utilized to reduce the standard energy change such that the overall Gibbs free energy becomes negative. The overall reaction is the transfer of phosphate from ATP to glucose, with an overall standard energy change of approximately -15 kJ/mol. Direct coupling: Reaction 1 and 2 are hypothetical half-reactions that sum to give the complete reaction at the bottom of the image. In the actual reaction the enzyme glucose kinase transfers the phospate group directly from ATP to glucose; hydrolysis of the ATP does not occur. Note that the two half-reactions sum to give the complete reaction, both in terms of the compounds involved as well as the overall standard energy change. Indirect coupling. The Gibbs free energy can also become negative by either having a favorable reaction that preceeds the unfavorable one, or a favorable reaction that follows the unfavorable one. In the first case, the favorable preceeding reaction causes the concentration of the substrates for the following unfavorable reaction to be higher than equilibrium, making G negative. For the case of a favorable following reaction, the concentration of the products of the unfavorable reaction are kept to a level that is smaller than the equilibrium concentration, again making G negative. This type of coupling between reactions is referred to as indirect coupling because the coupling between favorable and unfavorable reactions occurs indirectly, via alteration of concentrations of reactants and products. Indirect coupling: In the absence of coupling (left) the conversion of [B] to [C] is uphill energetically, and therefore not favorable. If the preceeding step ([A] to [B]) is very favorable, the concentration of [B] increases to a level above its equilibrium level, which decreases the Gibbs free energy for step [B] to [C]. Alternatively, if the following step ([C] to [D]) is favorable, the concentration of [C] will be lower than its equilbrium level, which also decreases the Gibbs free energy for the step [B] to [C].   Energy: Summary In this module, you learned about energy. Energy flows through living systems and cannot be recycled or reused. Eventually, energy is released as heat, and while this heat can be beneficial (it keeps us warm), it cannot be captured again and used to sustain the processes of life. Ultimately, energy for life comes from the sun. It is captured by plants through the process of photosynthesis (an anabolic process) and is stored in the form of glucose (a sugar). Living organisms can then go through the process of cellular respiration (a catabolic process) to transform the energy stored in the glucose into ATP, which is used to do work in the cell. Take some time to review this module before taking the quiz. The next module examines cellular respiration and photosynthesis more closely. Key Terms The following key terms were introduced in this module: adenosine diphosphate (ADP) adenosine triphosphate (ATP) anabolic reaction catabolic reaction cellular respiration chemical energy energy hydrolysis kinetic energy metabolic pathways potential energy In this module, you learned about energy. Energy flows through living systems and cannot be recycled or reused. Eventually, energy is released as heat, and while this heat can be beneficial (it keeps us warm), it cannot be captured again and used to sustain the processes of life. Ultimately, energy for life comes from the sun. It is captured by plants through the process of photosynthesis (an anabolic process) and is stored in the form of glucose (a sugar). Living organisms can then go through the process of cellular respiration (a catabolic process) to transform the energy stored in the glucose into ATP, which is used to do work in the cell. Take some time to review this module before taking the quiz. The next module examines cellular respiration and photosynthesis more closely. The following key terms were introduced in this module: adenosine diphosphate (ADP) adenosine triphosphate (ATP) anabolic reaction catabolic reaction cellular respiration chemical energy energy hydrolysis kinetic energy metabolic pathways potential energy   Energy: Summary In this module, you learned about energy. Energy flows through living systems and cannot be recycled or reused. Eventually, energy is released as heat, and while this heat can be beneficial (it keeps us warm), it cannot be captured again and used to sustain the processes of life. Ultimately, energy for life comes from the sun. It is captured by plants through the process of photosynthesis (an anabolic process) and is stored in the form of glucose (a sugar). Living organisms can then go through the process of cellular respiration (a catabolic process) to transform the energy stored in the glucose into ATP, which is used to do work in the cell. Take some time to review this module before taking the quiz. The next module examines cellular respiration and photosynthesis more closely. Key Terms The following key terms were introduced in this module: adenosine diphosphate (ADP) adenosine triphosphate (ATP) anabolic reaction catabolic reaction cellular respiration chemical energy energy hydrolysis kinetic energy metabolic pathways potential energy In this module, you learned about energy. Energy flows through living systems and cannot be recycled or reused. Eventually, energy is released as heat, and while this heat can be beneficial (it keeps us warm), it cannot be captured again and used to sustain the processes of life. Ultimately, energy for life comes from the sun. It is captured by plants through the process of photosynthesis (an anabolic process) and is stored in the form of glucose (a sugar). Living organisms can then go through the process of cellular respiration (a catabolic process) to transform the energy stored in the glucose into ATP, which is used to do work in the cell. Take some time to review this module before taking the quiz. The next module examines cellular respiration and photosynthesis more closely. The following key terms were introduced in this module: adenosine diphosphate (ADP) adenosine triphosphate (ATP) anabolic reaction catabolic reaction cellular respiration chemical energy energy hydrolysis kinetic energy metabolic pathways potential energy   What Is Energy? All living things need energy to run the processes required for life. Energy is defined as the capacity to do work. You can think of work as any change that wont happen on its own. Work can involve movement, building larger molecules, increasing the concentration of chemicals, increasing the temperature of an object, making a sound, or even glowing (bioluminescence). Energy is recognized by what it DOES: it makes work happen. It makes things change. Energy exists in many forms. Some biologically important forms of energy are light energy, electrical energy, sound energy, and thermal or heat energy. Kinetic energy is the energy of motion. Potential energy is stored energy. Energy can change forms and often transforms from potential to kinetic energy, and back. In biology, a key form of potential energy is chemical energy: the energy stored in chemical bonds. It can be released when certain bonds are broken. Chemical energy is released when wood is burned: the bonds in the wood are broken, releasing light and heat energy. Types of Work The first example below shows a single-celled organism  an amoeba  using energy to move. The second example illustrates the chemical reaction resulting in urea, a molecule found in urine. The third example shows bioluminescence  the emission of light by living organisms; in this case, the aurelia aurita jelly fish. Example 1: Cell movement. Double-click on the above image to observe an amoeba using energy to move. Example 2: Chemical Reaction. This chemical reaction is building urea (a molecule found in urine). Example 3: Light Emission. Double-click on the image to observe the jellyfish (Aurelia aurita) showing bioluminescence. All living things need energy to run the processes required for life. Energy is defined as the capacity to do work. You can think of work as any change that wont happen on its own. Work can involve movement, building larger molecules, increasing the concentration of chemicals, increasing the temperature of an object, making a sound, or even glowing (bioluminescence). Energy is recognized by what it DOES: it makes work happen. It makes things change. Energy exists in many forms. Some biologically important forms of energy are light energy, electrical energy, sound energy, and thermal or heat energy. Kinetic energy is the energy of motion. Potential energy is stored energy. Energy can change forms and often transforms from potential to kinetic energy, and back. In biology, a key form of potential energy is chemical energy: the energy stored in chemical bonds. It can be released when certain bonds are broken. Chemical energy is released when wood is burned: the bonds in the wood are broken, releasing light and heat energy.   Energy Conversion Energy can be converted from one form to another. In the image below, the chemical energy in the wood is converted to light and heat. After the fire dies, the heat and light have dissipated and are no longer available for living organisms. Energy in our biosphere is a one-way system: It comes from the sun, is captured by living organisms, and eventually is released back out as heat. Biological Energy Transformations Energy cannot be created or destroyed. Instead, energy is transformed from one form to another. Imagine that you climb a mountain trail ending in a steep cliff. Your bodys movement (kinetic energy) is fueled by chemical energy from your food. As you move uphill, your bodys chemical potential energy decreases (you break down molecules and use up stored food energy). At the same time, your bodys gravitational potential energy increases. This kind of potential energy can be released by letting an object drop from a height. A fall from the top of the cliff would do a great deal of work, so watch your step! Chemical to Gravitational Energy Converting chemical energy to gravitational energy.  Copyright Iain Lees and licensed for reuse under the CC BY-SA 2.0 licence. Where does chemical energy in food come from? The sun provides solar energy, the energy source for most living things. Plants and other photosynthetic organisms can use solar energy to build sugar molecules from simpler raw materials (carbon dioxide and water). A sugar molecule stores chemical energy in the bonds that join its atoms. The energy stored in sugar can be released and used to build other types of biological molecules (proteins, lipids, etc.), which also contain stored chemical energy in their complex structures. Energy from the sun can be converted into chemical energy (in sugars) by photosynthetic organisms. This chemical energy can then be used to do other work like building the components needed for growth. Energy cannot be created or destroyed. Instead, energy is transformed from one form to another. Imagine that you climb a mountain trail ending in a steep cliff. Your bodys movement (kinetic energy) is fueled by chemical energy from your food. As you move uphill, your bodys chemical potential energy decreases (you break down molecules and use up stored food energy). At the same time, your bodys gravitational potential energy increases. This kind of potential energy can be released by letting an object drop from a height. A fall from the top of the cliff would do a great deal of work, so watch your step! Chemical to Gravitational Energy Converting chemical energy to gravitational energy.  Copyright Iain Lees and licensed for reuse under the CC BY-SA 2.0 licence. Where does chemical energy in food come from? The sun provides solar energy, the energy source for most living things. Plants and other photosynthetic organisms can use solar energy to build sugar molecules from simpler raw materials (carbon dioxide and water). A sugar molecule stores chemical energy in the bonds that join its atoms. The energy stored in sugar can be released and used to build other types of biological molecules (proteins, lipids, etc.), which also contain stored chemical energy in their complex structures. Energy from the sun can be converted into chemical energy (in sugars) by photosynthetic organisms. This chemical energy can then be used to do other work like building the components needed for growth.   Biological Energy Transformations Energy cannot be created or destroyed. Instead, energy is transformed from one form to another. Imagine that you climb a mountain trail ending in a steep cliff. Your bodys movement (kinetic energy) is fueled by chemical energy from your food. As you move uphill, your bodys chemical potential energy decreases (you break down molecules and use up stored food energy). At the same time, your bodys gravitational potential energy increases. This kind of potential energy can be released by letting an object drop from a height. A fall from the top of the cliff would do a great deal of work, so watch your step! Chemical to Gravitational Energy Converting chemical energy to gravitational energy.  Copyright Iain Lees and licensed for reuse under this Creative Commons Licence. Where does chemical energy in food come from? The sun provides solar energy, the energy source for most living things. Plants and other photosynthetic organisms can use solar energy to build sugar molecules from simpler raw materials (carbon dioxide and water). A sugar molecule stores chemical energy in the bonds that join its atoms. The energy stored in sugar can be released and used to build other types of biological molecules (proteins, lipids, etc.) which also contain stored chemical energy in their complex structures. Energy from the sun can be converted into chemical energy (in sugars) by photosynthetic organisms. This chemical energy can then be used to do other work like building the components needed for growth.   Heat: An Energy Waste To us, it seems that the sun has burned forever and will always keep shining. However, the sun is fueled by nuclear energy generated by atoms colliding in its incredibly hot core. Eventually, the supply of fuel in the sun will be depleted and our suns long life will end. This illustrates an inescapable fact about energy: it tends to lose quality over time. It dissipates, spreading out in space, and loses its intensity. Heat is the energy possessed by any substance because of the random jiggling of its molecules and atoms. It is a low form of energy, disorderly, and spreads out rapidly through most materials. Every kind of energy conversion generates at least some heat energy as a byproduct. For example, the breakdown and use of chemical energy in food also releases heat. Heat can be helpful in keeping our bodies warm, but for the most part heat energy is a loss: an energy waste that cannot be recovered. No organism can capture heat and use it to do work or to make food. Instead, heat seeps out of organisms and eventually into space, leaving the biosphere forever.   Electron Transport and Oxidative Phosphorylation The production of ATP from "high-energy" electrons on NADH and FADH2 occurs in two steps, electron transport followed by ATP synthesis. The energy obtained from electron transport is stored as a pH gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The combination of a concentration difference of hydrogen ions and a voltage difference accross this membrane is often referred to as an electrochemical gradient. The electrochemical gradient is a form of potential energy that is utilized by the enzyme ATP synthase to convert ADP to ATP. The coupling between the proton gradient and the chemical synthesis of ATP, was originally proposed by Dr. Peter Michell in 1961 as the chemiosmotic hypothesis. His theory proved to be true, leading to a Nobel prize for his work in 1978. Electron Transport The electron transport chain consists of four multi-protein complexes that are contained within the inner mitochondrial membrane. These complexes remove electrons from NADH or FADH2 molecules that were generated by oxidative processes in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. These high energy compounds ultimately deposit their electrons on oxygen, forming water. The energy that is released by electron transport is stored as a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This proton gradient is used to drive the synthesis of ATP. Cellular Respiration Process The highlighted region focuses on the Electron Transport Chain, part of the complex process of metabolism. Various compounds are used by the electron transport chain to carry electrons. These components include: FAD/FADH2, is a cofactor that is tightly bound to the enzymes in the electron transport complexes. Iron-sulfur centers in the electron transport complexes shuttle electrons by alternating between Fe+2 and Fe+3. Coenzyme Q is an organic non-polar electron carrier that is dissolved within the membrane lipids of the inner mitochondrial membrane. It carries electrons between complex I and III and complex II and III. Cytochrome C is a heme containing protein that is very similar in structure to myoglobin. It is a water soluble protein found in the inter-membrane space. Cytochrome C carries one electron at a time from complex III to complex IV. The organization of the four complexes and electron carriers in the electron transport chain are illustrated in the following diagram: Electron Transport Overview The electron transport chain is contained within the inner membrane of the mitochondria. In addition to the four protein complexes, the location of electron carriers coenzymeQ and cytochrome C are also indicated. Complex I accepts electrons from NADH and complex II accepts electrons from succinate. Complex IV is responsible for transferring the electrons to the final electron acceptor, oxygen. Selecting the button labeled NADH will show the flow of electrons from NADH to complex IV. The button labeled FADH2 will show the path of electrons from succinate to FADH2 in complex II (succinate dehydrogenase), followed by movement of these electrons to complex IV. NADH is oxidized by the electron transport chain by the transfer of the two electrons from NADH to complex I. These electrons are then transferred to coenzyme Q, followed by transfer to complex III. The electrons are then carried by cytochrome C to complex IV, where the electrons are used to reduce oxygen to water. The energy that is released by the transfer of electrons from NADH to water is used to transport a total of 10 protons across the inner membrane. For every pair of electrons, four protons are transported by complex I, four by complex II and two by complex IV. The electrons from FADH2 are first processed by complex II. Complex II is actually succinate dehydrogenase from the TCA cycle. The electron acceptor for succinate, FAD, is tightly bound to the enzyme. Consequently, it is more correct to consider that complex II processes the electrons from succinate, first passing them to FAD and then via iron-sulfur centers to coenzyme Q. The two electrons then follow the same path as those from NADH2, from coenzyme Q to complex III, and then to complex IV via cytochrome C, finally to oxygen to produce water. Since electron transport through complex II does not result in the transport of protons only a total of 6 protons/2 electrons are transported across the inner membrane when succinate is the initial electron donor. In summary: Electrons from NADH and FADH2 are transferred to oxygen, generating water. Electron transport is spontaneous and releases energy. This energy is stored by transporting protons across the inner membrane. Oxidation of NADH results in 10 protons transported across the inner membrane. Oxidation of FADH2 results in 6 protons transported across the inner membrane. This link will take you to a movie providing an alternate representation of the electron transport process. Consequences of Interrupting Electron Transport ATP Synthesis The energy that has been stored in the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane cannot be easily utilized by other processes in the cell. It must be converted to a more usable source, such as ATP. The enzyme ATP synthase is responsible for converting the energy stored in the proton gradient to ATP. This enzyme is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and it projects into the matrix. The mechanism of ATP synthase is such that the enzyme generates one ATP molecule every time 3 protons are transferred back to the matrix from the inter-membrane space. Since the standard energy for the formation of ATP from ADP and Pi is +30 kJ/mol the transport of three protons must release at least 30kJ/mol in order to provide enough energy to synthesize ATP. The amount of energy that is stored in the protein gradient can be obtained by calculating the Gibbs free energy. If the products are defined as the protons that have been transported to the matrix, the formula is: G = RT ln [ H + ] IN [ H + ] OUT + ZF where Z is the change on the transported particle, F is Faraday's constant (96,494 Coulomb/mol) and is the voltage difference across the membrane: = V IN V OUT The Gibbs free energy consists of two terms. The first indicates the energy change due to the difference of proton concentration across the membrane. Its form is analogous to the formula give for the transport of glucose across the membrane in glycolysis. The second term accounts for the fact that the energy of a charged particle depends on the voltage. If there is a voltage difference across the membrane then the energy of the proton will depend on its location. Typical proton concentration differences across the inner membrane are approximately 10 fold, with the outside being more acidic. In addition to the concentration difference, there is also an approximately 100 mV voltage difference across the membrane, with the inside being more negative. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy change under these conditions at 300 K is: G = R ( 300 ) ln 1 10 + 1 96494 ( 0 . 1 ) = 5 . 7 9 . 6 kJ mol = 15 . 3 kJ mol Therefore the transport of 3 protons will release 45.9 kJ/mol, which is more than sufficient to generate a single ATP. Mechanism of ATP Synthase The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. The enzyme consists of two separable subunits. The Fo subunit is within the membrane and is responsible for the transfer of protons through the membrane. The F1 subunit extends into the mitochondrial matrix and is responsible for the synthesis of ATP. The F1 subunit is composed of three subunits and three subunits. These six subunits from a spherical structure where the and subunits alternate. The subunit extends from the Fo domain through the center of the - sphere. The subunit rotates 120 degrees every time three protons flows through the Fo domain. The - sphere is prevented from rotating along with the subunit by the b-subunit, which anchors the - sphere to the membrane. The conformation of the - subunits is affected by the relative position of the subunit. Since the gamma subunit rotates 120o, there are three possible conformations of the - subunits: A conformation that has low affinity of nucleotides, i.e. neither ATP or ADP bind. A conformation that has high affinity for ADP plus inorganic phosphate. A conformation that has high affinity for ATP, i.e. ATP is more stable in this conformation than ADP. The cycle of ATP synthesis is as follows: ADP and inorganic phosphate bind to the subunits that have high affinity for these compounds. A three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing a 120o rotation of the -subunit. The rotation of the -subunit causes a conformational change in the - subunits. ATP is more stable in the new conformation of the - subunits, consequently the bound ADP and inorganic phosphate is spontaneously converted to ATP. Another three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing another 120o rotation of the subunit. This rotation causes an additional conformational change of the - subunits, generating the conformation that has low affinity for ATP and ADP, thus the newly synthesized ATP is released. A three additional protons flows through the Fo domain, causing another rotation of subunits. This restores the system to the starting conditions. Complete rotation of the subunit requires the transfer of 9 protons across the membrane. This generates a total of 3 ATP molecules since there are three ADP/ATP binding sites on the F1 domain, one associated with each - subunit. Consequently, only three protons are required to synthesize one ATP. ATP Synthesis Tutorial Click the green arrow or PLAY button to play the animation. Cellular Respiration: Process Review Cellular respiration is a three-step process involving a complex series of chemical reactions. Carbon-containing molecules used as cellular fuel are broken down and converted to carbon dioxide (CO2). Electrons and hydrogen ions (H+) are produced as sugar is broken down and energy is harvested; oxygen (O2) combines with these byproducts to produce water (H2O). The energy released when carbon-containing molecules are broken down is captured and used to generate ATP molecules; some energy is also lost as heat. Cellular respiration is the primary source of ATP for most organisms because of the higher production rate fueled by aerobic respiration. The electron transport chain consists of four multi-protein complexes that are contained within the inner mitochondrial membrane. These complexes remove electrons from NADH or FADH2 molecules that were generated by oxidative processes in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. These high energy compounds ultimately deposit their electrons on oxygen, forming water. The energy that is released by electron transport is stored as a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This proton gradient is used to drive the synthesis of ATP. Cellular Respiration Process The highlighted region focuses on the Electron Transport Chain, part of the complex process of metabolism. Various compounds are used by the electron transport chain to carry electrons. These components include: FAD/FADH2, is a cofactor that is tightly bound to the enzymes in the electron transport complexes. Iron-sulfur centers in the electron transport complexes shuttle electrons by alternating between Fe+2 and Fe+3. Coenzyme Q is an organic non-polar electron carrier that is dissolved within the membrane lipids of the inner mitochondrial membrane. It carries electrons between complex I and III and complex II and III. Cytochrome C is a heme containing protein that is very similar in structure to myoglobin. It is a water soluble protein found in the inter-membrane space. Cytochrome C carries one electron at a time from complex III to complex IV. The organization of the four complexes and electron carriers in the electron transport chain are illustrated in the following diagram: Electron Transport Overview The electron transport chain is contained within the inner membrane of the mitochondria. In addition to the four protein complexes, the location of electron carriers coenzymeQ and cytochrome C are also indicated. Complex I accepts electrons from NADH and complex II accepts electrons from succinate. Complex IV is responsible for transferring the electrons to the final electron acceptor, oxygen. Selecting the button labeled NADH will show the flow of electrons from NADH to complex IV. The button labeled FADH2 will show the path of electrons from succinate to FADH2 in complex II (succinate dehydrogenase), followed by movement of these electrons to complex IV. NADH is oxidized by the electron transport chain by the transfer of the two electrons from NADH to complex I. These electrons are then transferred to coenzyme Q, followed by transfer to complex III. The electrons are then carried by cytochrome C to complex IV, where the electrons are used to reduce oxygen to water. The energy that is released by the transfer of electrons from NADH to water is used to transport a total of 10 protons across the inner membrane. For every pair of electrons, four protons are transported by complex I, four by complex II and two by complex IV. The electrons from FADH2 are first processed by complex II. Complex II is actually succinate dehydrogenase from the TCA cycle. The electron acceptor for succinate, FAD, is tightly bound to the enzyme. Consequently, it is more correct to consider that complex II processes the electrons from succinate, first passing them to FAD and then via iron-sulfur centers to coenzyme Q. The two electrons then follow the same path as those from NADH2, from coenzyme Q to complex III, and then to complex IV via cytochrome C, finally to oxygen to produce water. Since electron transport through complex II does not result in the transport of protons only a total of 6 protons/2 electrons are transported across the inner membrane when succinate is the initial electron donor. In summary: Electrons from NADH and FADH2 are transferred to oxygen, generating water. Electron transport is spontaneous and releases energy. This energy is stored by transporting protons across the inner membrane. Oxidation of NADH results in 10 protons transported across the inner membrane. Oxidation of FADH2 results in 6 protons transported across the inner membrane. This link will take you to a movie providing an alternate representation of the electron transport process. The energy that has been stored in the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane cannot be easily utilized by other processes in the cell. It must be converted to a more usable source, such as ATP. The enzyme ATP synthase is responsible for converting the energy stored in the proton gradient to ATP. This enzyme is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and it projects into the matrix. The mechanism of ATP synthase is such that the enzyme generates one ATP molecule every time 3 protons are transferred back to the matrix from the inter-membrane space. Since the standard energy for the formation of ATP from ADP and Pi is +30 kJ/mol the transport of three protons must release at least 30kJ/mol in order to provide enough energy to synthesize ATP. The amount of energy that is stored in the protein gradient can be obtained by calculating the Gibbs free energy. If the products are defined as the protons that have been transported to the matrix, the formula is: G = RT ln [ H + ] IN [ H + ] OUT + ZF where Z is the change on the transported particle, F is Faraday's constant (96,494 Coulomb/mol) and is the voltage difference across the membrane: = V IN V OUT The Gibbs free energy consists of two terms. The first indicates the energy change due to the difference of proton concentration across the membrane. Its form is analogous to the formula give for the transport of glucose across the membrane in glycolysis. The second term accounts for the fact that the energy of a charged particle depends on the voltage. If there is a voltage difference across the membrane then the energy of the proton will depend on its location. Typical proton concentration differences across the inner membrane are approximately 10 fold, with the outside being more acidic. In addition to the concentration difference, there is also an approximately 100 mV voltage difference across the membrane, with the inside being more negative. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy change under these conditions at 300 K is: G = R ( 300 ) ln 1 10 + 1 96494 ( 0 . 1 ) = 5 . 7 9 . 6 kJ mol = 15 . 3 kJ mol Therefore the transport of 3 protons will release 45.9 kJ/mol, which is more than sufficient to generate a single ATP. The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. The enzyme consists of two separable subunits. The Fo subunit is within the membrane and is responsible for the transfer of protons through the membrane. The F1 subunit extends into the mitochondrial matrix and is responsible for the synthesis of ATP. The F1 subunit is composed of three subunits and three subunits. These six subunits from a spherical structure where the and subunits alternate. The subunit extends from the Fo domain through the center of the - sphere. The subunit rotates 120 degrees every time three protons flows through the Fo domain. The - sphere is prevented from rotating along with the subunit by the b-subunit, which anchors the - sphere to the membrane. The conformation of the - subunits is affected by the relative position of the subunit. Since the gamma subunit rotates 120o, there are three possible conformations of the - subunits: A conformation that has low affinity of nucleotides, i.e. neither ATP or ADP bind. A conformation that has high affinity for ADP plus inorganic phosphate. A conformation that has high affinity for ATP, i.e. ATP is more stable in this conformation than ADP. The cycle of ATP synthesis is as follows: ADP and inorganic phosphate bind to the subunits that have high affinity for these compounds. A three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing a 120o rotation of the -subunit. The rotation of the -subunit causes a conformational change in the - subunits. ATP is more stable in the new conformation of the - subunits, consequently the bound ADP and inorganic phosphate is spontaneously converted to ATP. Another three protons flow through the Fo domain, causing another 120o rotation of the subunit. This rotation causes an additional conformational change of the - subunits, generating the conformation that has low affinity for ATP and ADP, thus the newly synthesized ATP is released. A three additional protons flows through the Fo domain, causing another rotation of subunits. This restores the system to the starting conditions. Complete rotation of the subunit requires the transfer of 9 protons across the membrane. This generates a total of 3 ATP molecules since there are three ADP/ATP binding sites on the F1 domain, one associated with each - subunit. Consequently, only three protons are required to synthesize one ATP. ATP Synthesis Tutorial Click the green arrow or PLAY button to play the animation. Cellular Respiration: Process Review Cellular respiration is a three-step process involving a complex series of chemical reactions. Carbon-containing molecules used as cellular fuel are broken down and converted to carbon dioxide (CO2). Electrons and hydrogen ions (H+) are produced as sugar is broken down and energy is harvested; oxygen (O2) combines with these byproducts to produce water (H2O). The energy released when carbon-containing molecules are broken down is captured and used to generate ATP molecules; some energy is also lost as heat. Cellular respiration is the primary source of ATP for most organisms because of the higher production rate fueled by aerobic respiration.   Photosynthesis Plants, algae, and some bacteria can use light energy to turn carbon dioxide and water into simple sugars through the process of photosynthesis. These sugars can act as building blocks for the synthesis of other organic molecules, or they can store energy for later use. While the process of photosynthesis stores chemical energy for later use, most photosynthetic organisms access the stored energy the same way consumers do: they break down the sugars to build ATP using the process of cellular respiration, which occurs in subcellular organelles called mitochondria. Photosynthetic producers have evolved an effective system for absorbing light and converting it into chemical energy. This biochemical solar energy system begins with a diverse array of (mostly green) pigments that are embedded in membranes. In plants and algae, these pigments are contained within specialized subcellular organelles called chloroplasts. You may want to review the Cell Structures page.   Calculating Free Energy 