10. [u'protein', u'amino', u'acids']
   Introduction to Macromolecules So far, we have discussed the major elements and functional groups that are important in the functioning of a cell. Together these elements and functional groups define the major properties of the four classes of macromolecules that make up a cell: carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and nucleic acids. In this module, we will explore two of these classes: carbohydrates and proteins. Carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids are all examples of polymers. These polymers are very large molecules composed of smaller units joined by covalent bonds using a common set of chemical reactions. Proteins are linear polymers of amino acids all joined by peptide bonds. Polysaccharides are the carbohydrates joined through glycosidic bonds in sometimes quite complex branched structures. Later in the course you will encounter DNA and RNA which are polymers of nucleic acids linked by phosphodiester bonds. This unit includes a discussion of the structures of polymers of carbohydrates and of amino acids.   Introduction to Macromolecules So far, we have discussed the major elements and functional groups that are important in the functioning of a cell. Together these elements and functional groups define the major properties of the four classes of macromolecules that make up a cell: carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and nucleic acids. In this module, we will explore two of these classes: carbohydrates and proteins. Carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids are all examples of polymers. These polymers are very large molecules composed of smaller units joined by covalent bonds using a common set of chemical reactions. Proteins are linear polymers of amino acids all joined by peptide bonds. Polysaccharides are the carbohydrates joined through glycosidic bonds in sometimes quite complex branched structures. Later in the course you will encounter DNA and RNA which are polymers of nucleic acids linked by phosphodiester bonds. This unit includes a discussion of the structures of polymers of carbohydrates and of amino acids.   Introduction to Macromolecules Upon completing this module, students will be able to: Identify and describe characteristics of the molecules marked. Distinguish between an aldose and a ketose. Identify which steroisomer of carbohydrates are found in nature. Define a glycosidic bond and the relationship between condensation and hydrolysis. Distinguish, and characterize the differences, between cellulose, starch and glycogen. Designate functions for the mono-, di-, and polysaccharides, given in the text. Identify the basic structure of all amino acids. Explain why all amino acids are the L-isomer and why glycine is not. Place any amino acid into one of the four categories of properties, based on the structure of its side chain. Recognize a peptide (amide bond) and list the structural properties of it. Distinguish primary, secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structures. Explain alpha helix and beta structures. Illustrate the different types of bonding responsible for holding the tertiary structure of protein together. So far, we have discussed the major elements and functional groups that are important in the functioning of a cell. Together these elements and functional groups define the major properties of the four classes of macromolecules that make up a cell: carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and nucleic acids. In this module, we will explore two of these classes: carbohydrates and proteins. Carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids are all examples of polymers. These polymers are very large molecules composed of smaller units joined by covalent bonds using a common set of chemical reactions. Proteins are linear polymers of amino acids all joined by peptide bonds. Polysaccharides are the carbohydrates joined through glycosidic bonds in sometimes quite complex branched structures. Later in the course you will encounter DNA and RNA which are polymers of nucleic acids linked by phosphodiester bonds. This unit includes a discussion of the structures of polymers of carbohydrates and of amino acids.   Amino Acids are the Building Blocks of Proteins By the end of this module, students will be able to: Identify the basic structure of amino acids. Classify amino acid side chains based on polarity and ionization. Explain why most naturally occurring amino acids are the L-isomers and why glycine is not. Identify the functional groups involved in formation of a peptide bond. Describe the type of reaction responsible for the formation and degradation of the peptide bond. Introduction Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. The sequence of amino acids in individual proteins is encoded in the DNA of the cell. The physical and chemical properties of the 20 different, naturally occurring amino acids dictate the shape of the protein and its interactions with its environment. Certain short sequences of amino acids in the protein also dictate where the protein resides in the cell. Proteins are composed of hundreds to thousands of amino acids. As you can imagine, protein folding is a complicated process and there are many potential shapes due to the large number of combinations of amino acids. By understanding the properties of the amino acids you will get an appreciation for the limits of protein folding and how to predict the potential higher order structure of the protein. The numbering of the carbon atoms in an amino acid follows the nomenclature used for carboxylic acids. The first carbon adjacent to the carboxyl group is the -carbon, followed by the -carbon, etc. as illustrated in the diagram to the right. All amino acids that are found in proteins have the same backbone structure, the acidic carboxylic acid group, the –carbon, and an amino group that is attached to the -carbon, hence the name -amino acids. The sidechain, or R, group is attached to the -carbon and is different for each amino acid. Note that the proton is often not drawn, but its existence should be inferred from the fact that carbon forms four single bonds. The amino group has a pKa value of ~9, thus it is protonated at pH 7.0. The carboxylic acid group has a pKa of 2.0, and thus it is deprotonated at pH 7.0. Each of the 20 amino acids has a different sidechain(R group), which is attached to the –carbon. Use the exercise below to identify these important functional groups in an amino acid. General structure of an -amino acid. The mainchain atoms, which are found in all amino acids, are highlighted. The remaining carbon atoms (, , etc) form the sidechain of the amino acid. These differ from one amino acid to the next. Alanine Chirality: Because there are four different groups attached to the central carbon, the –carbon is an asymmetric or chiral center. The chiral center gives rise to D and L enantiomers for each amino acid. However, where bioselectivity dictated the dominance of D carbohydrates, the same discrimination process for amino acids gives rise to the dominance of the use of L amino acids in nature. If all of the amino acids have the same basic structure with an amino, a carboxyl and a hydrogen fixed to the –carbon, then the large variation in the properties and structure of the amino acids must come from the fourth group attached to the –carbon. This group is referred to as the side chain of the amino acid or the R group. The structures of the 20 common amino acids are shown below. Clicking on the amino acid in the table, displays three-dimensional model of that amino acid below the table. Common Amino Acids Instructions: You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the sidechain atoms of each amino acid. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. For example, which amino acids have polar sidechains? Which have planar aromatic groups? You can review the basic functional groups that were discussed in the first lecture by following this link. The mainchain atoms of glycine are highlighted in yellow and its sidechain (H) is highlighted in green. All amino acids have the same mainchain atoms, but differ in the sidechains. For clarity, the –hydrogen is omitted in the remaining drawings. Non-polar amino acids are highlighted in grey, Aromatic amino acids are highlighted in cyan, Polar amino acids are highlighted in purple, Amino acids with acidic sidechains are highlighted in red, and Amino acids with basic sidechains are highlighted in blue. The amino acids cysteine and proline, which are shown at the bottom of the page have unique properties. Cysteine can form covalent S-S disulfide bond, stabilizing the protein structure. In the case of proline, the sidechain attaches to its own nitrogen, making proline an amino acid. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. Clicking on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid will present the 3D structure in the Jmol window on the right (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool). Initially a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right. The sidechain groups of these amino acids contain many of the same functional groups that were discussed in the first module and can be found in the Functional Groups. To learn more about the amino acids, watch the video of Dr. Bill Brown's lecture on amino acids. It may be helpful to review the Functional Groups by clicking the Learn-By-Doing link below. Peptide Bond Proteins are polymers of amino acids. The amino acids are joined together by a condensation reaction similar to that described for the formation of the glycosidic bond in polysaccharides. Each amino acid in the polymer is referred to as a residue. Individual amino acids are joined together by the attack of the nitrogen of an amino group of one amino acid on the carbonyl carbon of the carboxyl group of another to create a covalent peptide bond and yield a molecule of water as shown below. Peptide bond formation occurs by a dehydration reaction. The amino group of the second amino acid attacks the carbonyl carbon of the first, forming the peptide bond and releasing water. The resultant dipeptide has an amino terminus (left) and a carboxy-terminus (right). The mainchain atoms, which are the same for each residue in the peptide, include the nitrogen and its proton, the –carbon and its hydrogen, and the C=O group. The R-groups form the sidechain atoms. The resulting peptide chain is linear, defined by the mechanism that builds the polymer, and has defined ends. Short polymers (< 50 residues or amino acids) are usually refereed to as peptides, and longer polymers as proteins. Because the synthesis takes place from the alpha amino group of one amino acid to the carboxyl group of another amino acid, the result is that there will always be a free amino group on one end of the growing polymer (the N-terminus) and a free carboxyl group on the other end (the C-terminus). Note that the potential exists for the formation of amide (peptide) links involving the carboxyl and amino groups in the side chains, but bioselectivity directs the synthesis to be linear, involving only the alpha amino and alpha carboxyl groups. Note that after the amino acid has been incorporated into the protein, the charges on the –amino and the carboxyl groups have disappeared. Thus the mainchain atoms have become polar functional groups. Since each residue in a protein has exactly the same mainchain atoms, the functional properties of a protein must arise from the different sidechain groups. By convention, the sequences of peptides and proteins are written with the N-terminus on the left and the C-terminus on the right. The name of the N-terminal residue is always the first amino acid. The name of each amino acid then follows. The primary sequence of a protein refers to its amino acid sequence. Test you knowledge of Amino Acids You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the sidechain atoms of each amino acid. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. For example, which amino acids have polar sidechains? Which have planer aromatic groups? You can review the basic functional groups that were discussed in the first lecture by following this link. Instructions: In order to answer the following questions you will have to view the 3D structure of different amino acids in the Jmol window. You can load different structures by clicking on the name of the amino acid. Note that you may have to click twice the first time you use this tool. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. The sequence of amino acids in individual proteins is encoded in the DNA of the cell. The physical and chemical properties of the 20 different, naturally occurring amino acids dictate the shape of the protein and its interactions with its environment. Certain short sequences of amino acids in the protein also dictate where the protein resides in the cell. Proteins are composed of hundreds to thousands of amino acids. As you can imagine, protein folding is a complicated process and there are many potential shapes due to the large number of combinations of amino acids. By understanding the properties of the amino acids you will get an appreciation for the limits of protein folding and how to predict the potential higher order structure of the protein. The numbering of the carbon atoms in an amino acid follows the nomenclature used for carboxylic acids. The first carbon adjacent to the carboxyl group is the -carbon, followed by the -carbon, etc. as illustrated in the diagram to the right. All amino acids that are found in proteins have the same backbone structure, the acidic carboxylic acid group, the –carbon, and an amino group that is attached to the -carbon, hence the name -amino acids. The sidechain, or R, group is attached to the -carbon and is different for each amino acid. Note that the proton is often not drawn, but its existence should be inferred from the fact that carbon forms four single bonds. The amino group has a pKa value of ~9, thus it is protonated at pH 7.0. The carboxylic acid group has a pKa of 2.0, and thus it is deprotonated at pH 7.0. Each of the 20 amino acids has a different sidechain(R group), which is attached to the –carbon. Use the exercise below to identify these important functional groups in an amino acid. General structure of an -amino acid. The mainchain atoms, which are found in all amino acids, are highlighted. The remaining carbon atoms (, , etc) form the sidechain of the amino acid. These differ from one amino acid to the next. Alanine Chirality: Because there are four different groups attached to the central carbon, the –carbon is an asymmetric or chiral center. The chiral center gives rise to D and L enantiomers for each amino acid. However, where bioselectivity dictated the dominance of D carbohydrates, the same discrimination process for amino acids gives rise to the dominance of the use of L amino acids in nature. If all of the amino acids have the same basic structure with an amino, a carboxyl and a hydrogen fixed to the –carbon, then the large variation in the properties and structure of the amino acids must come from the fourth group attached to the –carbon. This group is referred to as the side chain of the amino acid or the R group. The structures of the 20 common amino acids are shown below. Clicking on the amino acid in the table, displays three-dimensional model of that amino acid below the table. Common Amino Acids Instructions: You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the sidechain atoms of each amino acid. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. For example, which amino acids have polar sidechains? Which have planar aromatic groups? You can review the basic functional groups that were discussed in the first lecture by following this link. The mainchain atoms of glycine are highlighted in yellow and its sidechain (H) is highlighted in green. All amino acids have the same mainchain atoms, but differ in the sidechains. For clarity, the –hydrogen is omitted in the remaining drawings. Non-polar amino acids are highlighted in grey, Aromatic amino acids are highlighted in cyan, Polar amino acids are highlighted in purple, Amino acids with acidic sidechains are highlighted in red, and Amino acids with basic sidechains are highlighted in blue. The amino acids cysteine and proline, which are shown at the bottom of the page have unique properties. Cysteine can form covalent S-S disulfide bond, stabilizing the protein structure. In the case of proline, the sidechain attaches to its own nitrogen, making proline an amino acid. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. Clicking on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid will present the 3D structure in the Jmol window on the right (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool). Initially a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right. The sidechain groups of these amino acids contain many of the same functional groups that were discussed in the first module and can be found in the Functional Groups. To learn more about the amino acids, watch the video of Dr. Bill Brown's lecture on amino acids. It may be helpful to review the Functional Groups by clicking the Learn-By-Doing link below. Proteins are polymers of amino acids. The amino acids are joined together by a condensation reaction similar to that described for the formation of the glycosidic bond in polysaccharides. Each amino acid in the polymer is referred to as a residue. Individual amino acids are joined together by the attack of the nitrogen of an amino group of one amino acid on the carbonyl carbon of the carboxyl group of another to create a covalent peptide bond and yield a molecule of water as shown below. Peptide bond formation occurs by a dehydration reaction. The amino group of the second amino acid attacks the carbonyl carbon of the first, forming the peptide bond and releasing water. The resultant dipeptide has an amino terminus (left) and a carboxy-terminus (right). The mainchain atoms, which are the same for each residue in the peptide, include the nitrogen and its proton, the –carbon and its hydrogen, and the C=O group. The R-groups form the sidechain atoms. The resulting peptide chain is linear, defined by the mechanism that builds the polymer, and has defined ends. Short polymers (< 50 residues or amino acids) are usually refereed to as peptides, and longer polymers as proteins. Because the synthesis takes place from the alpha amino group of one amino acid to the carboxyl group of another amino acid, the result is that there will always be a free amino group on one end of the growing polymer (the N-terminus) and a free carboxyl group on the other end (the C-terminus). Note that the potential exists for the formation of amide (peptide) links involving the carboxyl and amino groups in the side chains, but bioselectivity directs the synthesis to be linear, involving only the alpha amino and alpha carboxyl groups. Note that after the amino acid has been incorporated into the protein, the charges on the –amino and the carboxyl groups have disappeared. Thus the mainchain atoms have become polar functional groups. Since each residue in a protein has exactly the same mainchain atoms, the functional properties of a protein must arise from the different sidechain groups. By convention, the sequences of peptides and proteins are written with the N-terminus on the left and the C-terminus on the right. The name of the N-terminal residue is always the first amino acid. The name of each amino acid then follows. The primary sequence of a protein refers to its amino acid sequence.   Amino Acids are the building blocks of Proteins By the end of this module, students will be able to: Identify the basic structure of amino acids. Classify amino acid side chains based on polarity and ionization. Explain why most naturally occurring amino acids are the L-isomers and why glycine is not. Identify the functional groups involved in formation of a peptide bond. Describe the type of reaction responsible for the formation and degradation of the peptide bond. Introduction Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. The sequence of amino acids in individual proteins is encoded in the DNA of the cell. The physical and chemical properties of the 20 different, naturally occurring amino acids dictate the shape of the protein and its interactions with its environment. Certain short sequences of amino acids in the protein also dictate where the protein resides in the cell. Proteins are composed of hundreds to thousands of amino acids. As you can imagine, protein folding is a complicated process and there are many potential shapes due to the large number of combinations of amino acids. By understanding the properties of the amino acids you will get an appreciation for the limits of protein folding and how to predict the potential higher order structure of the protein. The numbering of the carbon atoms in an amino acid follows the nomenclature used for carboxylic acids. The first carbon adjacent to the carboxyl group is the -carbon, followed by the -carbon, etc. as illustrated in the diagram to the right. All amino acids that are found in proteins have the same backbone structure, the acidic carboxylic acid group, the –carbon, and an amino group that is attached to the -carbon, hence the name -amino acids. The sidechain, or R, group is attached to the -carbon and is different for each amino acid. Note that the proton is often not drawn, but its existence should be inferred from the fact that carbon forms four single bonds. The amino group has a pKa value of ~9, thus it is protonated at pH 7.0. The carboxylic acid group has a pKa of 2.0, and thus it is deprotonated at pH 7.0. Each of the 20 amino acids has a different sidechain(R group), which is attached to the –carbon. Use the exercise below to identify these important functional groups in an amino acid. General structure of an -amino acid. The mainchain atoms, which are found in all amino acids, are highlighted. The remaining carbon atoms (, , etc) form the sidechain of the amino acid. These differ from one amino acid to the next. Alanine Chirality: Because there are four different groups attached to the central carbon, the –carbon is an asymmetric or chiral center. The chiral center gives rise to D and L enantiomers for each amino acid. However, where bioselectivity dictated the dominance of D carbohydrates, the same discrimination process for amino acids gives rise to the dominance of the use of L amino acids in nature. If all of the amino acids have the same basic structure with an amino, a carboxyl and a hydrogen fixed to the –carbon, then the large variation in the properties and structure of the amino acids must come from the fourth group attached to the –carbon. This group is referred to as the side chain of the amino acid or the R group. The structures of the 20 common amino acids are shown below. Clicking on the amino acid in the table, displays three-dimensional model of that amino acid below the table. Common Amino Acids Instructions: You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the sidechain atoms of each amino acid. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. For example, which amino acids have polar sidechains? Which have planar aromatic groups? You can review the basic functional groups that were discussed in the first lecture by following this link. The mainchain atoms of glycine are highlighted in yellow and its sidechain (H) is highlighted in green. All amino acids have the same mainchain atoms, but differ in the sidechains. For clarity, the –hydrogen is omitted in the remaining drawings. Non-polar amino acids are highlighted in grey, Aromatic amino acids are highlighted in cyan, Polar amino acids are highlighted in purple, Amino acids with acidic sidechains are highlighted in red, and Amino acids with basic sidechains are highlighted in blue. The amino acids cysteine and proline, which are shown at the bottom of the page have unique properties. Cysteine can form covalent S-S disulfide bond, stabilizing the protein structure. In the case of proline, the sidechain attaches to its own nitrogen, making proline an amino acid. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. Clicking on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid will present the 3D structure in the Jmol window on the right (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool). Initially a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right. The sidechain groups of these amino acids contain many of the same functional groups that were discussed in the first module and can be found in the Functional Groups. To learn more about the amino acids, watch the video of Dr. Bill Brown's lecture on amino acids. It may be helpful to review the Functional Groups by clicking the Learn-By-Doing link below. Peptide Bond Proteins are polymers of amino acids. The amino acids are joined together by a condensation reaction similar to that described for the formation of the glycosidic bond in polysaccharides. Each amino acid in the polymer is referred to as a residue. Individual amino acids are joined together by the attack of the nitrogen of an amino group of one amino acid on the carbonyl carbon of the carboxyl group of another to create a covalent peptide bond and yield a molecule of water as shown below. Peptide bond formation occurs by a dehydration reaction. The amino group of the second amino acid attacks the carbonyl carbon of the first, forming the peptide bond and releasing water. The resultant dipeptide has an amino terminus (left) and a carboxy-terminus (right). The mainchain atoms, which are the same for each residue in the peptide, include the nitrogen and its proton, the –carbon and its hydrogen, and the C=O group. The R-groups form the sidechain atoms. The resulting peptide chain is linear, defined by the mechanism that builds the polymer, and has defined ends. Short polymers (< 50 residues or amino acids) are usually refereed to as peptides, and longer polymers as proteins. Because the synthesis takes place from the alpha amino group of one amino acid to the carboxyl group of another amino acid, the result is that there will always be a free amino group on one end of the growing polymer (the N-terminus) and a free carboxyl group on the other end (the C-terminus). Note that the potential exists for the formation of amide (peptide) links involving the carboxyl and amino groups in the side chains, but bioselectivity directs the synthesis to be linear, involving only the alpha amino and alpha carboxyl groups. Note that after the amino acid has been incorporated into the protein, the charges on the –amino and the carboxyl groups have disappeared. Thus the mainchain atoms have become polar functional groups. Since each residue in a protein has exactly the same mainchain atoms, the functional properties of a protein must arise from the different sidechain groups. By convention, the sequences of peptides and proteins are written with the N-terminus on the left and the C-terminus on the right. The name of the N-terminal residue is always the first amino acid. The name of each amino acid then follows. The primary sequence of a protein refers to its amino acid sequence. Test you knowledge of Amino Acids You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the sidechain atoms of each amino acid. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. For example, which amino acids have polar sidechains? Which have planer aromatic groups? You can review the basic functional groups that were discussed in the first lecture by following this link. Instructions: In order to answer the following questions you will have to view the 3D structure of different amino acids in the Jmol window. You can load different structures by clicking on the name of the amino acid. Note that you may have to click twice the first time you use this tool. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. The sequence of amino acids in individual proteins is encoded in the DNA of the cell. The physical and chemical properties of the 20 different, naturally occurring amino acids dictate the shape of the protein and its interactions with its environment. Certain short sequences of amino acids in the protein also dictate where the protein resides in the cell. Proteins are composed of hundreds to thousands of amino acids. As you can imagine, protein folding is a complicated process and there are many potential shapes due to the large number of combinations of amino acids. By understanding the properties of the amino acids you will get an appreciation for the limits of protein folding and how to predict the potential higher order structure of the protein. The numbering of the carbon atoms in an amino acid follows the nomenclature used for carboxylic acids. The first carbon adjacent to the carboxyl group is the -carbon, followed by the -carbon, etc. as illustrated in the diagram to the right. All amino acids that are found in proteins have the same backbone structure, the acidic carboxylic acid group, the –carbon, and an amino group that is attached to the -carbon, hence the name -amino acids. The sidechain, or R, group is attached to the -carbon and is different for each amino acid. Note that the proton is often not drawn, but its existence should be inferred from the fact that carbon forms four single bonds. The amino group has a pKa value of ~9, thus it is protonated at pH 7.0. The carboxylic acid group has a pKa of 2.0, and thus it is deprotonated at pH 7.0. Each of the 20 amino acids has a different sidechain(R group), which is attached to the –carbon. Use the exercise below to identify these important functional groups in an amino acid. General structure of an -amino acid. The mainchain atoms, which are found in all amino acids, are highlighted. The remaining carbon atoms (, , etc) form the sidechain of the amino acid. These differ from one amino acid to the next. Alanine Chirality: Because there are four different groups attached to the central carbon, the –carbon is an asymmetric or chiral center. The chiral center gives rise to D and L enantiomers for each amino acid. However, where bioselectivity dictated the dominance of D carbohydrates, the same discrimination process for amino acids gives rise to the dominance of the use of L amino acids in nature. If all of the amino acids have the same basic structure with an amino, a carboxyl and a hydrogen fixed to the –carbon, then the large variation in the properties and structure of the amino acids must come from the fourth group attached to the –carbon. This group is referred to as the side chain of the amino acid or the R group. The structures of the 20 common amino acids are shown below. Clicking on the amino acid in the table, displays three-dimensional model of that amino acid below the table. Common Amino Acids Instructions: You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the sidechain atoms of each amino acid. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. For example, which amino acids have polar sidechains? Which have planar aromatic groups? You can review the basic functional groups that were discussed in the first lecture by following this link. The mainchain atoms of glycine are highlighted in yellow and its sidechain (H) is highlighted in green. All amino acids have the same mainchain atoms, but differ in the sidechains. For clarity, the –hydrogen is omitted in the remaining drawings. Non-polar amino acids are highlighted in grey, Aromatic amino acids are highlighted in cyan, Polar amino acids are highlighted in purple, Amino acids with acidic sidechains are highlighted in red, and Amino acids with basic sidechains are highlighted in blue. The amino acids cysteine and proline, which are shown at the bottom of the page have unique properties. Cysteine can form covalent S-S disulfide bond, stabilizing the protein structure. In the case of proline, the sidechain attaches to its own nitrogen, making proline an amino acid. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. Clicking on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid will present the 3D structure in the Jmol window on the right (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool). Initially a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right. The sidechain groups of these amino acids contain many of the same functional groups that were discussed in the first module and can be found in the Functional Groups. To learn more about the amino acids, watch the video of Dr. Bill Brown's lecture on amino acids. It may be helpful to review the Functional Groups by clicking the Learn-By-Doing link below. Proteins are polymers of amino acids. The amino acids are joined together by a condensation reaction similar to that described for the formation of the glycosidic bond in polysaccharides. Each amino acid in the polymer is referred to as a residue. Individual amino acids are joined together by the attack of the nitrogen of an amino group of one amino acid on the carbonyl carbon of the carboxyl group of another to create a covalent peptide bond and yield a molecule of water as shown below. Peptide bond formation occurs by a dehydration reaction. The amino group of the second amino acid attacks the carbonyl carbon of the first, forming the peptide bond and releasing water. The resultant dipeptide has an amino terminus (left) and a carboxy-terminus (right). The mainchain atoms, which are the same for each residue in the peptide, include the nitrogen and its proton, the –carbon and its hydrogen, and the C=O group. The R-groups form the sidechain atoms. The resulting peptide chain is linear, defined by the mechanism that builds the polymer, and has defined ends. Short polymers (< 50 residues or amino acids) are usually refereed to as peptides, and longer polymers as proteins. Because the synthesis takes place from the alpha amino group of one amino acid to the carboxyl group of another amino acid, the result is that there will always be a free amino group on one end of the growing polymer (the N-terminus) and a free carboxyl group on the other end (the C-terminus). Note that the potential exists for the formation of amide (peptide) links involving the carboxyl and amino groups in the side chains, but bioselectivity directs the synthesis to be linear, involving only the alpha amino and alpha carboxyl groups. Note that after the amino acid has been incorporated into the protein, the charges on the –amino and the carboxyl groups have disappeared. Thus the mainchain atoms have become polar functional groups. Since each residue in a protein has exactly the same mainchain atoms, the functional properties of a protein must arise from the different sidechain groups. By convention, the sequences of peptides and proteins are written with the N-terminus on the left and the C-terminus on the right. The name of the N-terminal residue is always the first amino acid. The name of each amino acid then follows. The primary sequence of a protein refers to its amino acid sequence.   Amino Acids and Proteins Proteins are an essential part of a cell, and are composed of 20 amino acids that fold into intricate structures. In this section, you will explore the folding of proteins and how this folding dictates function.   Protein Synthesis Describe what post-transcriptional modification must take place before translation. Define the role of each RNA molecule used in translation. Distinguish between prokaryotic and eukaryotic translation. Define the genetic code. Describe the process of translation as a step-wise process. The Code Translation involves the conversion of a sequence of RNA to a corresponding sequence of amino acids. To perform the conversion a code is needed to translate from the four nucleotides (AUGC) of mRNA to the 20 naturally occurring amino acids. The question then is what combination of nucleotides can code for at least twenty different amino acids? Four nucleotides taken two at a time would generate 16 possible unique sequences. Not enough to code for 20 different amino acids. However, four nucleotides taken 3 at a time would generate 64 different unique sequences. Clearly this is enough to code for the 20 naturally-occurring amino acids. In fact, the abundance of codes means that there is redundancy or degeneracy in the code with more than one triplet code representing a single amino acid. Through experimentation it was found that the universal start code or codon is AUG and three stop codons (UAG, UGA and UAA) were identified. The remaining 60 codons represented the 20 amino acids. Having elucidated the entire code it was found that for many of the amino acids, the first two nucleotides in the sequence defined the amino acid with the third nucleotide being any of the four nucleotides. For example the codon for the amino acid leucine is CUX where the X represents any one of the four nucleotides, and the codon for the amino acid valine is GUX. This third base then became known as the wobble base signifying the flexibility the system has in identifying the third base. This also demonstrates the fact that a single amino acid can be coded by several triplet codes but a triplet code only represents a single amino acid. This triplet code for converting the sequence of mRNA to a sequence of amino acids is referred to as the Genetic Code. The Starting Materials Having identified a code to perform the translation, it is now necessary to describe the process by which the genetic code is used. Four major ingredients are necessary to carry out translation: m-RNA, t-RNA, the ribosome and the initiation factors. Messenger RNA (mRNA) was discussed in the last section with a description of the post-transcriptional modification that convert the pre-mRNA in the nucleus to mature-mRNA in the cytoplasm. Transfer-RNA (tRNA) was introduced in the section on the structure of DNA and RNA and its production and post-transcriptional modification were briefly described in the previous section. As seen in the illustration below, tRNA is produced as a primary transcript in a linear primary structure. Following processing the tRNA folds into the cloverleaf secondary structure. In this structure it is easy to see the 3’ end of the structure with its ACC sequence that is common to all tRNAs. In addition the bottom loop in the structure (the anticodon loop) contains the sequence that is complementary and antiparallel to a sequence on the mRNA. This secondary structure folds to a tertiary structure in the form of an inverted L. The 3’ end is at one end of the structure and is the site that will carry a specific amino acid that corresponds to the sequence of nucleotides in the anticodon at the other end of the molecule. The process by which the correct amino acid is added to the correct tRNA is referred to as the charging of the tRNA. The formation of the charged tRNA is a two-step process as depicted in the "Charging" animation below. tRNA Structures Primary Sequence Secondary Sequence Tertiary Sequence t-RNA Double Helix The Following Learn by Doing contains an animation describing the tRNA structures. Ribosomes are quaternary complexes of rRNA and proteins. When they are not translating RNA to protein, the ribosomes exist as two separated subunits: a large (50S) subunit and a small (30S) subunit as depicted in the figure below. During the formation of the 70S initiation complex that starts translation, the two subunits come together to form the complete ribosome. 50S and 30S subunits 70 S Initiation Complex Initiation Factors are a set of proteins used to facilitate the specific binding of mRNA to the small subunit of the ribosome. Protein Synthesis The following animation describes the formation of the initiation complex, the elongation of the peptide during synthesis and the termination of the synthesis at the termination or stop codon. The process is fundamentally the same for prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The one notable exception is in the binding of the mRNA with the small subunit of the ribosome during formation of the initiation complex. Prokaryotes do not have a 5’cap to identify the end of the mRNA but they do have a consensus sequence called the Shine-Dalgarno-Sequence at the 5’ end of the mRNA. This sequence is used to align the mRNA with the appropriate site on the ribosomal subunit. In eukaryotic organisms the 5’cap provides the alignment along with multiple initiation factors. Following formation of the initiation complex, the synthesis of protein follows the same sequence in both organisms. The Consequence or Error During both replication and transcription errors can be made in the incorporation of the correct bases during the complementary copying of the DNA. In a previous section a discussion of the methods used by the system to minimize these errors has been presented. However, even with editing functions, some errors are generated and result in changing of the reading code used during translation to a protein sequence. These changes are referred to as mutations and can be categorized into four different categories described by the end result of the mutation or change. Silent mutation – Because of the degeneracy of the genetic code, multiple triplet codes represent the same amino acid. Thus, a change in the sequence for a code may not result in a change in amino acid. This particularly applies to the wobble or third base in a triplet code sequence. Thermophylic bacteria that operate optimally at high temperatures have optimized the use of the degeneracy to include codons with high G and C content to increase the thermal stability (higher melting temperature) of the resulting duplex DNA. Missense mutation – Some mutations result in the changing of a codon to represent a different amino acid. Missense mutations that change the amino acid can have no effect on the structure of a protein or may have a dramatic effect on the folding of a protein causing loss of function. Nonsense mutation – Another class of mutations may result in the changing of a codon to one of the three termination or stop codons. This will result in premature stop in the translation of a protein. Such a mutation at the beginning of the translation sequence will generally result in total loss of function which some nonsense mutations near the normal termination of the coding sequence may have little or no effect on the function of the resulting protein. Frame-shift mutations – Occasionally a mutation will occur that results in either the insertion or deletion of an extra base in the coding sequence. This type of mutation results in a shifting of the “reading” frame for the triplet codes after the insertion or deletion and production of a meaningless sequence of protein after that point. Again depending on where the insertion or deletion occurs, the effect can vary on the final product. It should also be noted that this reading frame shift will also change the position of the termination codon giving either a premature termination of the translation or an extended coding sequence.   Organic Molecules are Modular Modularity Organic molecules come in all shapes and sizes. One of the key features of organic molecules is their modularity: a limited set of monomers can be connected in different ways to form a vast array of polymers. It may help to consider an analogy: with a few dozen different kinds of Lego bricks, you can make an almost limitless diversity of structures. In organic molecules, monomers can be linked together by bonds between different atoms, different monomers can be used, and they can be strung together in many different arrangements. Therefore, organic molecules are virtually limitless in their diversity. Biological Macromolecules The four major classes of biological macromolecules are carbohydrates, proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids. These molecules carry out a diverse set of essential functions. Carbohydrates are essential for energy storage and cellular communication. Nucleic acids (such as DNA) are essential for information storage within a cell and passing on this information to the next generation. Lipids are essential for energy storage and maintaining a boundary between the living organism and its environment. Proteins are essential for carrying out most of the necessary functions of life. Each major class of organic molecules represents a diverse assortment of polymers that are built from a handful of possible monomers. The monomers, smaller molecules bound together, are also called subunits. The table below lists the subunits for each class of organic molecule. Different carbohydrates, for example, are polymers made up of sugars (the monomers). Proteins are polymers made up of amino acids (the monomers). Nucleic acids are polymers made up of nucleotides (subunits or monomers). Even lipids are generated by combining separate fatty acid chemical components. Macromolecules and Their Subunits By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Large Macromolecule Small Subunit Molecule Functions carbohydrates sugars stores energy; provides structural suppor lipids fatty acids provides energy (long term); serves as structural components of membranes nucleic acids nucleotides stores genetic information, synthesizes proteins proteins amino acids serves as structural components of tissues; facilitates and speeds up biochemical reactions (enzymes) There are many different types of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids. Each has a different function and purpose in living organisms. There are also many different types of subunit amino acids, sugars, fatty acids, and nucleotides. The combination of these different types of subunits is what determines the properties and function of the macromolecule. For example, the function of a particular protein is determined by the amino acids in it. Macromolecules and Their Subunits Perform the following activity to review the relationship between polymers (macromolecules) and monomers (smaller subunits). Indicate the macromolecule composed of each subunit. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Organic molecules come in all shapes and sizes. One of the key features of organic molecules is their modularity: a limited set of monomers can be connected in different ways to form a vast array of polymers. It may help to consider an analogy: with a few dozen different kinds of Lego bricks, you can make an almost limitless diversity of structures. In organic molecules, monomers can be linked together by bonds between different atoms, different monomers can be used, and they can be strung together in many different arrangements. Therefore, organic molecules are virtually limitless in their diversity. The four major classes of biological macromolecules are carbohydrates, proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids. These molecules carry out a diverse set of essential functions. Carbohydrates are essential for energy storage and cellular communication. Nucleic acids (such as DNA) are essential for information storage within a cell and passing on this information to the next generation. Lipids are essential for energy storage and maintaining a boundary between the living organism and its environment. Proteins are essential for carrying out most of the necessary functions of life. Each major class of organic molecules represents a diverse assortment of polymers that are built from a handful of possible monomers. The monomers, smaller molecules bound together, are also called subunits. The table below lists the subunits for each class of organic molecule. Different carbohydrates, for example, are polymers made up of sugars (the monomers). Proteins are polymers made up of amino acids (the monomers). Nucleic acids are polymers made up of nucleotides (subunits or monomers). Even lipids are generated by combining separate fatty acid chemical components. Macromolecules and Their Subunits By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Large Macromolecule Small Subunit Molecule Functions carbohydrates sugars stores energy; provides structural suppor lipids fatty acids provides energy (long term); serves as structural components of membranes nucleic acids nucleotides stores genetic information, synthesizes proteins proteins amino acids serves as structural components of tissues; facilitates and speeds up biochemical reactions (enzymes) There are many different types of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids. Each has a different function and purpose in living organisms. There are also many different types of subunit amino acids, sugars, fatty acids, and nucleotides. The combination of these different types of subunits is what determines the properties and function of the macromolecule. For example, the function of a particular protein is determined by the amino acids in it. Perform the following activity to review the relationship between polymers (macromolecules) and monomers (smaller subunits). Indicate the macromolecule composed of each subunit. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC.   Proteins: Summary Summary Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Key Terms Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. active site activation energy amino acid amino acids with acidic side chains amino acids with basic side chains aromatic amino acid catalyst denatured state enzyme ligand nonpolar amino acid peptide bond polar amino acid protein substrate Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. active site activation energy amino acid amino acids with acidic side chains amino acids with basic side chains aromatic amino acid catalyst denatured state enzyme ligand nonpolar amino acid peptide bond polar amino acid protein substrate   Proteins: Summary Summary Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Key Terms Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. active site activation energy amino acid amino acids with acidic side chains amino acids with basic side chains aromatic amino acid catalyst denatured state enzyme ligand nonpolar amino acid peptide bond polar amino acid protein substrate Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. active site activation energy amino acid amino acids with acidic side chains amino acids with basic side chains aromatic amino acid catalyst denatured state enzyme ligand nonpolar amino acid peptide bond polar amino acid protein substrate   Proteins: Summary Summary Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Key Terms Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. active site activation energy amino acid amino acids with acidic side chains amino acids with basic side chains aromatic amino acid catalyst denatured state enzyme ligand nonpolar amino acid peptide bond polar amino acid protein substrate Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. active site activation energy amino acid amino acids with acidic side chains amino acids with basic side chains aromatic amino acid catalyst denatured state enzyme ligand nonpolar amino acid peptide bond polar amino acid protein substrate   Proteins: Summary Summary Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Key Terms Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. active site activation energy amino acid amino acids with acidic side chains amino acids with basic side chains aromatic amino acid catalyst denatured state enzyme ligand nonpolar amino acid peptide bond polar amino acid protein substrate Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biological macromolecules. Simply by stringing together amino acid building blocks in different combinations, structures are built that can function as enzymes to catalyze chemical reactions, provide structural support, transport substances in and out of the cell, and even transport substances around the body. Proteins can carry out this wide array of different functions because they can assume very different structures. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. active site activation energy amino acid amino acids with acidic side chains amino acids with basic side chains aromatic amino acid catalyst denatured state enzyme ligand nonpolar amino acid peptide bond polar amino acid protein substrate   Amino Acids Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. A protein is composed of a series of amino acids attached end-to-end via covalent bonds. Consequently a protein looks like a string of beads, with each bead representing an amino acid. The bond between the amino acids is referred to as the peptide bond. Amino acids, represented here by circles, are the building blocks of proteins. When amino acids are attached to each other via peptide bonds, they form a protein. Proteins can be made up of a number of different amino acids, represented in this figure by the open and filled circles. Amino acids are small organic chemicals that can be identified by their common structures. All amino acids have a nitrogen containing amino group, a carboxylic acid group, and and a single carbon between the amino and carboxylic acid groups. This carbon is called the alpha carbon since it is directly attached to the carboxyl group. The amino differ in the nature of the organic group that is attached to the central alpha carbon. The different organic groups are referred to as “R-groups”. There are 20 different R-groups commonly found in nature. Thus amino acids are identical except for the different R-groups attached to the alpha carbon. The properties of different proteins depends entirely on the sequence, or arrangement of the amino acids. Common Amino Acids Instructions: You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the sidechain atoms of each amino acid. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. For example, which amino acids have polar sidechains? Which have planar aromatic groups? You can review the basic functional groups that were discussed in the first lecture by following this link. The mainchain atoms of glycine are highlighted in yellow and its sidechain (H) is highlighted in green. All amino acids have the same mainchain atoms, but differ in the sidechains. For clarity, the hydrogen is omitted in the remaining drawings. Non-polar amino acids are highlighted in grey, Aromatic amino acids are highlighted in cyan, Polar amino acids are highlighted in purple, Amino acids with acidic sidechains are highlighted in red, and Amino acids with basic sidechains are highlighted in blue. The amino acids cysteine and proline, which are shown at the bottom of the page have unique properties. Cysteine can form covalent S-S disulfide bond, stabilizing the protein structure. In the case of proline, the sidechain attaches to its own nitrogen, making proline an amino acid. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. Clicking on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid will present the 3D structure in the Jmol window on the right (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool). Initially a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right. There are many ways to represent an amino acid. Sometimes the carbon are indicated by intersecting lines, instead of the letter C. Sometimes the chemical bonds are given shapes that indicate the three dimensional structure of the molecule. Other times, the entire molecule is represented in a diagramatic fashion, such as in the “building block” representation. This model enables you to more easily visualize the important aspects of the molecule, though information about structural form is lacking. In the next module, you will use building block models of amino acids to figure out how proteins areformed. This is a building block diagram. This image reminds you that the blocks are representing chemical structures Two amino acids are shown, alanine and serine. The building block diagram is on the left and the chemical structure is on the right. Note that only the sidechain differs between the two, in alanine it consists of a non-polar CH3 group, in serine one of the hydrogens has been replaced by a polar -OH group   Representing Amino Acids There are many ways to represent an amino acid. Sometimes the carbon are indicated by intersecting lines, instead of the letter C. Sometimes the chemical bonds are given shapes that indicate the three dimensional structure of the molecule. Other times, the entire molecule is represented in a diagramatic fashion, such as in the “building block” representation. This model enables you to more easily visualize the important aspects of the molecule, though information about structural form is lacking. In the next module, you will use building block models of amino acids to figure out how proteins areformed. Look at the two images below. An amino acid on the left is a building block diagram. The structure on the right reminds you that the blocks are representing chemical structures.   Amino Acids Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. A protein is composed of a series of amino acids attached end-to-end via covalent bonds. Consequently, a protein looks like a string of beads, with each bead representing an amino acid. The bond between the amino acids is referred to as the peptide bond. Amino acids, represented here by circles, are the building blocks of proteins. When amino acids are attached to each other via peptide bonds, they form a protein. Proteins can be made up of a number of different amino acids, represented in this figure by the open and filled circles. An amino acid is a small organic chemical that is made up of four parts. There is a nitrogen-containing amino group on one end of an amino acid. The other end of an amino acid has a carboxylic acid group. These two groups (the amino group and the carboxylic acid group) are the reason for the name “amino acid.” The amino and carboxylic acid groups are linked by a single carbon atom called the alpha carbon. Finally, there is a variable “R group” also attached to the alpha carbon. The amino acids differ in the nature of the R group that is attached to the central alpha carbon. There are 20 different R groups commonly found in nature. In this way, all amino acids are identical except for the different R groups (also called side chains) attached to the alpha carbon. The properties of different proteins depend entirely on the sequence, or arrangement, of the amino acids. There are many ways to represent an amino acid. Take a look at some of the representations below. This is a building block diagram. This image reminds you that the blocks are representing chemical structures. Two amino acids are shown: alanine and serine. The building block diagram for each amino acid is on the left and the chemical structure is on the right. Note that only the side chain (R group) differs between the two: in alanine, it consists of a nonpolar CH3 group; in serine, one of the hydrogens has been replaced by a polar -OH group Common Amino Acids Instructions: You should become familiar with the functional groups associated with the side-chain atoms of each amino acid. You should be able to infer the properties of the side chain from the 2D chemical diagram and the 3D structure. For example, which amino acids have polar side chains? Which have planar aromatic groups? You can explore the basic functional groups by clicking on this link. The main-chain atoms of glycine are highlighted in yellow and its side chain (H) is highlighted in green. All amino acids have the same main-chain atoms, but differ in the side chains. For clarity, the hydrogen is omitted in the remaining drawings. Nonpolar amino acids are highlighted in gray, Aromatic amino acids are highlighted in cyan, Polar amino acids are highlighted in purple, Amino acids with acidic side chains are highlighted in red, and Amino acids with basic side chains are highlighted in blue. The amino acids cysteine and proline, which are shown at the bottom of the page, have unique properties. Cysteine can form covalent S-S disulfide bonds, stabilizing the protein structure. In the case of proline, the side chain attaches to its own nitrogen, making proline an amino acid. The structure of the 20 common amino acids is shown in the table. Click on any of the 2D drawings of an amino acid below and the 3D structure will be presented in the Jmol window on the right. (Note: you may need to click twice the first time you use this tool.) Initially, a 2D drawing of the simplest amino acid, glycine, is shown in the upper left and its 3D structure is shown on the right.   What Are Proteins? Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biomolecules we will examine in this unit. Critical to our diet, protein can be found in animal products like meats and cheeses, as well as, in plant products like beans and grains. Kwashiorkor, which causes a distinct swelling of the abdomen, is often seen in malnourished children who lack sufficient protein in their diets. Proteins are also found in many toxins, such as the incredibly poisonous toxin produced by the bacterial species Clostridium botulinum. Studies have shown that just one teaspoon of this poison, which is a protein, would be enough to kill 20 percent of the world's population! This module will take a closer look at the various types of proteins, their functions, and structure. Then we will examine how protein structure enables such a wide range of diverse functions. Diversity of Types and Functions of Proteins Proteins are macromolecules built from amino acids. There are many different types of proteins, and each type has a special function to perform in living organisms. This specialized function is determined largely by the types of amino acids that are in the protein. There are 20 different amino acids that can be joined in a myriad of ways to produce molecules with an enormous variety of possible structures that can perform a huge number of critical cellular functions. The following list represents just a sampling of the many things proteins can do in living systems. Proteins can catalyze chemical reactions by accelerating the rate at which chemical reactions take place in the cell. Proteins that catalyze reactions are called enzymes. Proteins play a role in the storage, replication, transmission, and regulation of genetic information (DNA). Some proteins bind to DNA and either reduce the expression of a gene, or activate the expression of a gene. Proteins can help move substances in and out of the cell. These proteins can be embedded in the cell membrane, where they act as transporters. Some soluble proteins can transport materials throughout the body. Hemoglobin is a protein that is found in high concentrations in red blood cells. Hemoglobin carries oxygen from our lungs to our tissues. Proteins can recognize specific molecules. Protein receptors found in the lining of your nose recognize and bind to chemicals in the air, which triggers a message to the brain indicating the presence of a certain smell. Proteins can facilitate mechanical movement. Special proteins found in muscle cells use the energy in ATP to flex your muscles. Proteins can help maintain structure in an organism. The cellular cytoskeleton consists of proteins that form long fibrous scaffolding in cells that helps the cell maintain its shape. Some of the major types of proteins and their functions are summarized in the table below. Major Proteins and Their Functions By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Type of Protein General Function Example antibodies Identify and neutralize foreign substances IgE protein—binds to allergens and triggers an allergic reaction enzymes Speed up chemical reactions amylase protein—digests starches in the mouth hormones Regulate the rate of cell processes (growth, metabolism, development) insulin—regulates the breakdown and use of carbohydrates mechanical Provide flexibility, elasticity, and support for movement actin and myosin—allow muscles to contract nutrient Provide support for growth and overall health casein—an important nutrient for growth and development (a group of proteins that make up 80 percent of cow’s milk) structural Provide organisms with structure, support, and elasticity collagen and keratin—provide form to bones, cartilage, tendons, hair transport Carry substances from one part of the organism to another hemoglobin protein—transports oxygen in blood Take a look at this diagram to see even more ways that proteins are used in your body. Source: The Structures of Life, National Institute of General Medical Sciences. Proteins are macromolecules built from amino acids. There are many different types of proteins, and each type has a special function to perform in living organisms. This specialized function is determined largely by the types of amino acids that are in the protein. There are 20 different amino acids that can be joined in a myriad of ways to produce molecules with an enormous variety of possible structures that can perform a huge number of critical cellular functions. The following list represents just a sampling of the many things proteins can do in living systems. Proteins can catalyze chemical reactions by accelerating the rate at which chemical reactions take place in the cell. Proteins that catalyze reactions are called enzymes. Proteins play a role in the storage, replication, transmission, and regulation of genetic information (DNA). Some proteins bind to DNA and either reduce the expression of a gene, or activate the expression of a gene. Proteins can help move substances in and out of the cell. These proteins can be embedded in the cell membrane, where they act as transporters. Some soluble proteins can transport materials throughout the body. Hemoglobin is a protein that is found in high concentrations in red blood cells. Hemoglobin carries oxygen from our lungs to our tissues. Proteins can recognize specific molecules. Protein receptors found in the lining of your nose recognize and bind to chemicals in the air, which triggers a message to the brain indicating the presence of a certain smell. Proteins can facilitate mechanical movement. Special proteins found in muscle cells use the energy in ATP to flex your muscles. Proteins can help maintain structure in an organism. The cellular cytoskeleton consists of proteins that form long fibrous scaffolding in cells that helps the cell maintain its shape. Some of the major types of proteins and their functions are summarized in the table below. Major Proteins and Their Functions By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Type of Protein General Function Example antibodies Identify and neutralize foreign substances IgE protein—binds to allergens and triggers an allergic reaction enzymes Speed up chemical reactions amylase protein—digests starches in the mouth hormones Regulate the rate of cell processes (growth, metabolism, development) insulin—regulates the breakdown and use of carbohydrates mechanical Provide flexibility, elasticity, and support for movement actin and myosin—allow muscles to contract nutrient Provide support for growth and overall health casein—an important nutrient for growth and development (a group of proteins that make up 80 percent of cow’s milk) structural Provide organisms with structure, support, and elasticity collagen and keratin—provide form to bones, cartilage, tendons, hair transport Carry substances from one part of the organism to another hemoglobin protein—transports oxygen in blood Take a look at this diagram to see even more ways that proteins are used in your body. Source: The Structures of Life, National Institute of General Medical Sciences.   Connecting Amino Acids Proteins EVERYTHING IS AWESOME are built when amino acids are linked end-to-end by covalent bonds. The covalent bonds that link amino acids are called peptide bonds. A peptide bond is formed when the amino group of one amino acid reacts with the carboxylic acid of another amino acid. After a peptide bond forms, the three conserved parts of the two amino acids (the nitrogen group, the alpha carbon and the carboxylic acid) are all linked, forming the main chain, or backbone, of the protein. The variable side chains of each amino acid (the R groups) project out from the main chain. Two amino acids join to form a dipeptide. Longer chains of connected amino acids are often called polypeptides. When polypeptides are synthesized, new amino acids are added only to the carboxylic acid end of the existing chain. A completed polypeptide is directional; it has two different ends. One end has a free amino group, while the other end has a free carboxylic acid group. When amino acids in a protein are counted, the numbering starts with the amino acid that has the free amino group. The last amino acid is also the last one that was added when the chain was built: it has a free carboxylic acid group. Peptide bond formation. The left side shows a building block representation; the right side shows chemical structures. Note that the serine is flipped upside down in the right diagram for ease of presentation. The amino group of the second amino acid (serine) forms a peptide bond with the carbon that is part of the carboxylic acid group of the first amino acid (alanine), releasing a water molecule. The atoms that become the water molecule are highlighted in yellow. There is now a dipeptide ("di" means "two"). The resultant dipeptide consists of a continuous chain of main-chain atoms (pink highlight), from which the side chains project. When building a dipeptide, any pair of amino acids can be linked together in any order. This variability and the different chemical properties of each amino acid result in a vast number of very different proteins with very different functions.   Sequence and Structure of Proteins The order of the amino acids in a particular protein is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes and the order of amino acids is referred to as the sequence of the protein. An example of aprotein sequence is shown below where the one letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. By convention, the first first amino acid is at the end with the free amino group and the last amino acid is at the end with the carboylic acid group. Human Myoglobin Amino acid sequence of Human Myoglobin (a protein found in muscle cells). 10 20 30 40 50 60 MGLSDGEWQL VLNVWGKVEA DIPGHGQEVL IRLFKGHPET LEKFDKFKHL KSEDEMKASE 70 80 90 100 110 120 DLKKHGATVL TALGGILKKK GHHEAEIKPL AQSHATKHKI PVKYLEFISE CIIQVLQSKH 130 140 150 PGDFGADAQG AMNKALELFR KDMASNYKEL GFQG Human myoglobin is a polypeptide chain made up of 154 amino acids. Amino acids are indicated using the single letter code. For example, the amino acid alanine is abbreviated with the letter A, and the amino acid serine is abbreviated with the letter S. The linear chain of amino acids will spontaneously fold into a three dimensional shape, which is usually the active form of the protein. For example, look at the drawing of the three dimensional structure of myoglobin (shown on the left). You can manipulate the 3D structure using the Jmol image on the right. Many folded proteins bind small organic molecules that assist the protein in performing its function. For example, the heme group in myoglobin (colored purple in the right image) is responsible for binding oxygen in muscles. The oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin, also contains heme groups. Protein Folding Proteins spontaneously fold to form their functional three dimensional shape, reaching the lowest energy state, because this is the most stable state. The folding process can be reversible, meaning that a folded protein can unfold and then refold. However, unfolding can also be irreversible, where the unfolded protein chains tangle with each other, forming an aggregate and precipitating out of solution. This is often referred to as a denatured state. Conditions that cause proteins to unfold and denature are extremes of temperature and pH. Cooking denatures proteins by heating so they unfold and denature. The same effect occurs when proteins are exposed to the low pH in our stomach. This helps your body digest the proteins found in your food, and it helps kill ingested bacteria and viruses. The folded structure of one particular protein is similar for all molecules in solution. Heating the sample can cause the protein to unfold. In the unfolded state each molecule has a different shape. The unfolded protein can either refold, or the chains can aggregate or tangle, forming the insoluble denatured form. The polypeptide sequence is the same for all three forms of the protein. The Hydrophobic Effect on Folding Although many factors stabilize the final shape of a protein, the most importantfact is the hydrophobic effect. Amino acids with non-polar (hydrophobic) sidechains are driven into the central core of the protein because they are repelled by the water. This is known as the hydrophobic effect and it results in proteins that have amino acids with hydrophilic sidechains on the surface of the protein. The folded protein reaches the lowest energy state, which is the most stable, by folding in a way to optimize the burial of non-polar amino acid sidechains while still leaving the polar groups on the surface. Therefore, the shape of the folded form of the protein depends on the order of hydrophobic amino acids in the protein. Consider a short 12 amino acid protein consisting of polar (white) and non-polar (black) amino acids. This polypeptide will fold to bury most of the non-polar amino acids, removing them from contact with water, giving the lowest energy state. Other structures are possible, but these will be higher energy (and consequently less stable) because they expose more non-polar amino acid side-chains to water. The unfolded form of a 12 amino acid peptide is shown on the left. Notice that the first amino acid is polar, followed by a non-polar one, and then two polar ones. Two possible folded structures are shown on the right. The top structure exposes 4 non-polar sidechains to the surface while the lower structure only exposes three non-polar sidechains to the water. This indicates that the lower structure would be the most stable folded structure. The red line shows the path of the mainchain atoms. Proteins spontaneously fold to form their functional three dimensional shape, reaching the lowest energy state, because this is the most stable state. The folding process can be reversible, meaning that a folded protein can unfold and then refold. However, unfolding can also be irreversible, where the unfolded protein chains tangle with each other, forming an aggregate and precipitating out of solution. This is often referred to as a denatured state. Conditions that cause proteins to unfold and denature are extremes of temperature and pH. Cooking denatures proteins by heating so they unfold and denature. The same effect occurs when proteins are exposed to the low pH in our stomach. This helps your body digest the proteins found in your food, and it helps kill ingested bacteria and viruses. The folded structure of one particular protein is similar for all molecules in solution. Heating the sample can cause the protein to unfold. In the unfolded state each molecule has a different shape. The unfolded protein can either refold, or the chains can aggregate or tangle, forming the insoluble denatured form. The polypeptide sequence is the same for all three forms of the protein. Although many factors stabilize the final shape of a protein, the most importantfact is the hydrophobic effect. Amino acids with non-polar (hydrophobic) sidechains are driven into the central core of the protein because they are repelled by the water. This is known as the hydrophobic effect and it results in proteins that have amino acids with hydrophilic sidechains on the surface of the protein. The folded protein reaches the lowest energy state, which is the most stable, by folding in a way to optimize the burial of non-polar amino acid sidechains while still leaving the polar groups on the surface. Therefore, the shape of the folded form of the protein depends on the order of hydrophobic amino acids in the protein. Consider a short 12 amino acid protein consisting of polar (white) and non-polar (black) amino acids. This polypeptide will fold to bury most of the non-polar amino acids, removing them from contact with water, giving the lowest energy state. Other structures are possible, but these will be higher energy (and consequently less stable) because they expose more non-polar amino acid side-chains to water. The unfolded form of a 12 amino acid peptide is shown on the left. Notice that the first amino acid is polar, followed by a non-polar one, and then two polar ones. Two possible folded structures are shown on the right. The top structure exposes 4 non-polar sidechains to the surface while the lower structure only exposes three non-polar sidechains to the water. This indicates that the lower structure would be the most stable folded structure. The red line shows the path of the mainchain atoms.   Protein Structure The order of the amino acids in a particular protein is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes, and the order of amino acids is referred to as the sequence of the protein. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one-letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. By convention, the first amino acid is at the end with the free amino group and the last amino acid is at the end with the carboxylic acid group. Human Myoglobin The linear chain of amino acids will spontaneously fold into a three-dimensional shape, which is usually the active form of the protein. For example, look at the drawing of the three-dimensional structure of myoglobin (shown on the left). You can manipulate the 3D structure using the Jmol image on the right. Many folded proteins bind small organic molecules that assist the protein in performing its function. For example, the heme group in myoglobin (colored gray in the right image) is not part of the protein chain, but fits within a pocket in the myoglobin protein. Myoglobin is responsible for binding oxygen in muscles. Heme groups also are present in the oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin. Protein Folding Proteins spontaneously fold to form their functional three-dimensional shape, reaching the lowest energy state, because this is the most stable state. The folding process can be reversible, meaning that a folded protein can unfold and then refold. However, unfolding can also be irreversible, where the unfolded protein chains tangle with each other, forming an aggregate and precipitating out of solution. This is often referred to as a denatured state. Conditions that cause proteins to unfold and denature are extremes of temperature and pH. Cooking denatures proteins by heating so they unfold and denature. The same effect occurs when proteins are exposed to the low pH in your stomach. This helps your body digest the proteins found in your food, and it helps kill ingested bacteria and viruses. The folded structure of one particular protein is similar for all molecules in solution. Heating the sample can cause the protein to unfold. In the unfolded state, each molecule has a different shape. The unfolded protein can either refold, or the chains can aggregate or tangle, forming the insoluble denatured form. The polypeptide sequence is the same for all three forms of the protein. The Hydrophobic Effect on Folding Although many factors stabilize the final shape of a protein, the most important factor is the hydrophobic effect. Amino acids with nonpolar (hydrophobic) side chains are driven into the central core of the protein because they are repelled by the water. This is known as the hydrophobic effect, and it results in proteins that have amino acids with hydrophilic side chains on the surface of the protein. The folded protein reaches the lowest energy state, which is the most stable, by folding in a way that will optimize the burial of nonpolar amino acid side chains while still leaving the polar groups on the surface. Therefore, the shape of the folded form of the protein depends on the order of the hydrophobic amino acids in the protein. Consider a short 12 amino acid protein consisting of polar (white) and nonpolar (black) amino acids. This polypeptide will fold to bury most of the nonpolar amino acids, removing them from contact with water, giving the lowest energy state. Other structures are possible, but these will be higher energy (and consequently less stable) because they expose more nonpolar amino acid side chains to water. The unfolded form of a 12 amino acid peptide is shown on the left. Notice that the first amino acid is polar, followed by a nonpolar one, and then two polar ones. Two possible folded structures are shown on the right. The top structure exposes four nonpolar side chains to the water, while the lower structure only exposes three nonpolar side chains to the water. This indicates that the lower structure would be the most stable folded structure. The red line shows the path of the main-chain atoms. Proteins spontaneously fold to form their functional three-dimensional shape, reaching the lowest energy state, because this is the most stable state. The folding process can be reversible, meaning that a folded protein can unfold and then refold. However, unfolding can also be irreversible, where the unfolded protein chains tangle with each other, forming an aggregate and precipitating out of solution. This is often referred to as a denatured state. Conditions that cause proteins to unfold and denature are extremes of temperature and pH. Cooking denatures proteins by heating so they unfold and denature. The same effect occurs when proteins are exposed to the low pH in your stomach. This helps your body digest the proteins found in your food, and it helps kill ingested bacteria and viruses. The folded structure of one particular protein is similar for all molecules in solution. Heating the sample can cause the protein to unfold. In the unfolded state, each molecule has a different shape. The unfolded protein can either refold, or the chains can aggregate or tangle, forming the insoluble denatured form. The polypeptide sequence is the same for all three forms of the protein. Although many factors stabilize the final shape of a protein, the most important factor is the hydrophobic effect. Amino acids with nonpolar (hydrophobic) side chains are driven into the central core of the protein because they are repelled by the water. This is known as the hydrophobic effect, and it results in proteins that have amino acids with hydrophilic side chains on the surface of the protein. The folded protein reaches the lowest energy state, which is the most stable, by folding in a way that will optimize the burial of nonpolar amino acid side chains while still leaving the polar groups on the surface. Therefore, the shape of the folded form of the protein depends on the order of the hydrophobic amino acids in the protein. Consider a short 12 amino acid protein consisting of polar (white) and nonpolar (black) amino acids. This polypeptide will fold to bury most of the nonpolar amino acids, removing them from contact with water, giving the lowest energy state. Other structures are possible, but these will be higher energy (and consequently less stable) because they expose more nonpolar amino acid side chains to water. The unfolded form of a 12 amino acid peptide is shown on the left. Notice that the first amino acid is polar, followed by a nonpolar one, and then two polar ones. Two possible folded structures are shown on the right. The top structure exposes four nonpolar side chains to the water, while the lower structure only exposes three nonpolar side chains to the water. This indicates that the lower structure would be the most stable folded structure. The red line shows the path of the main-chain atoms.   Protein Structure: Overview The order of the amino acids in a particular protein is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes, and the order of amino acids is referred to as the sequence of the protein. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one-letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. By convention, the first amino acid is at the end with the free amino group and the last amino acid is at the end with the carboxylic acid group. Human Myoglobin The linear chain of amino acids will spontaneously fold into a three-dimensional shape, which is usually the active form of the protein. For example, look at the drawing of the three-dimensional structure of myoglobin (shown on the left). You can manipulate the 3D structure using the Jmol image on the right. Many folded proteins bind small organic molecules that assist the protein in performing its function. For example, the heme group in myoglobin (colored gray in the right image) is not part of the protein chain, but fits within a pocket in the myoglobin protein. Myoglobin is responsible for binding oxygen in muscles. Heme groups also are present in the oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin. Protein Folding Proteins spontaneously fold to form their functional three-dimensional shape, reaching the lowest energy state, because this is the most stable state. The folding process can be reversible, meaning that a folded protein can unfold and then refold. However, unfolding can also be irreversible, where the unfolded protein chains tangle with each other, forming an aggregate and precipitating out of solution. This is often referred to as a denatured state. Conditions that cause proteins to unfold and denature are extremes of temperature and pH. Cooking denatures proteins by heating so they unfold and denature. The same effect occurs when proteins are exposed to the low pH in your stomach. This helps your body digest the proteins found in your food, and it helps kill ingested bacteria and viruses. The folded structure of one particular protein is similar for all molecules in solution. Heating the sample can cause the protein to unfold. In the unfolded state, each molecule has a different shape. The unfolded protein can either refold, or the chains can aggregate or tangle, forming the insoluble denatured form. The polypeptide sequence is the same for all three forms of the protein. The Hydrophobic Effect on Folding Although many factors stabilize the final shape of a protein, the most important factor is the hydrophobic effect. Amino acids with nonpolar (hydrophobic) side chains are driven into the central core of the protein because they are repelled by the water. This is known as the hydrophobic effect, and it results in proteins that have amino acids with hydrophilic side chains on the surface of the protein. The folded protein reaches the lowest energy state, which is the most stable, by folding in a way that will optimize the burial of nonpolar amino acid side chains while still leaving the polar groups on the surface. Therefore, the shape of the folded form of the protein depends on the order of the hydrophobic amino acids in the protein. Consider a short 12 amino acid protein consisting of polar (white) and nonpolar (black) amino acids. This polypeptide will fold to bury most of the nonpolar amino acids, removing them from contact with water, giving the lowest energy state. Other structures are possible, but these will be higher energy (and consequently less stable) because they expose more nonpolar amino acid side chains to water. The unfolded form of a 12 amino acid peptide is shown on the left. Notice that the first amino acid is polar, followed by a nonpolar one, and then two polar ones. Two possible folded structures are shown on the right. The top structure exposes four nonpolar side chains to the water, while the lower structure only exposes three nonpolar side chains to the water. This indicates that the lower structure would be the most stable folded structure. The red line shows the path of the main-chain atoms. Protein Structure Proteins spontaneously fold to form their functional three-dimensional shape, reaching the lowest energy state, because this is the most stable state. The folding process can be reversible, meaning that a folded protein can unfold and then refold. However, unfolding can also be irreversible, where the unfolded protein chains tangle with each other, forming an aggregate and precipitating out of solution. This is often referred to as a denatured state. Conditions that cause proteins to unfold and denature are extremes of temperature and pH. Cooking denatures proteins by heating so they unfold and denature. The same effect occurs when proteins are exposed to the low pH in your stomach. This helps your body digest the proteins found in your food, and it helps kill ingested bacteria and viruses. The folded structure of one particular protein is similar for all molecules in solution. Heating the sample can cause the protein to unfold. In the unfolded state, each molecule has a different shape. The unfolded protein can either refold, or the chains can aggregate or tangle, forming the insoluble denatured form. The polypeptide sequence is the same for all three forms of the protein. Although many factors stabilize the final shape of a protein, the most important factor is the hydrophobic effect. Amino acids with nonpolar (hydrophobic) side chains are driven into the central core of the protein because they are repelled by the water. This is known as the hydrophobic effect, and it results in proteins that have amino acids with hydrophilic side chains on the surface of the protein. The folded protein reaches the lowest energy state, which is the most stable, by folding in a way that will optimize the burial of nonpolar amino acid side chains while still leaving the polar groups on the surface. Therefore, the shape of the folded form of the protein depends on the order of the hydrophobic amino acids in the protein. Consider a short 12 amino acid protein consisting of polar (white) and nonpolar (black) amino acids. This polypeptide will fold to bury most of the nonpolar amino acids, removing them from contact with water, giving the lowest energy state. Other structures are possible, but these will be higher energy (and consequently less stable) because they expose more nonpolar amino acid side chains to water. The unfolded form of a 12 amino acid peptide is shown on the left. Notice that the first amino acid is polar, followed by a nonpolar one, and then two polar ones. Two possible folded structures are shown on the right. The top structure exposes four nonpolar side chains to the water, while the lower structure only exposes three nonpolar side chains to the water. This indicates that the lower structure would be the most stable folded structure. The red line shows the path of the main-chain atoms. Protein Structure   Building Proteins As you know, transcription is the process through which a complementary copy of mRNA is synthesized using one strand of DNA as a template. Before you continue, answer these review questions to make sure you understand some important concepts related to transcription. During translation, the information in the mRNA is used to determine the order in which to string together amino acids and build a particular protein. The sequence of bases in the mRNA determines which amino acid will be used in the protein. Every three bases codes for a single amino acid. These three bases are called codons or triplets. For example, the mRNA codon UGG codes for the amino acid tryptophan. In the exercise below, you will simulate the process of transcription and translation and build a small protein. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC   Protein Synthesis The Code Translation involves the conversion of a sequence of RNA to a corresponding sequence of amino acids. To perform the conversion a code is needed to translate from the four nucleotides (AUGC) of mRNA to the 20 naturally occurring amino acids. The question then is what combination of nucleotides can code for at least twenty different amino acids? Four nucleotides taken two at a time would generate 16 possible unique sequences. Not enough to code for 20 different amino acids. However, four nucleotides taken 3 at a time would generate 64 different unique sequences. Clearly this is enough to code for the 20 naturally-occurring amino acids. In fact, the abundance of codes means that there is redundancy or degeneracy in the code with more than one triplet code representing a single amino acid. Through experimentation it was found that the universal start code or codon is AUG and three stop codons (UAG, UGA and UAA) were identified. The remaining 60 codons represented the 20 amino acids. Having elucidated the entire code it was found that for many of the amino acids, the first two nucleotides in the sequence defined the amino acid with the third nucleotide being any of the four nucleotides. For example the codon for the amino acid leucine is CUX where the X represents any one of the four nucleotides, and the codon for the amino acid valine is GUX. This third base then became known as the wobble base signifying the flexibility the system has in identifying the third base. This also demonstrates the fact that a single amino acid can be coded by several triplet codes but a triplet code only represents a single amino acid. This triplet code for converting the sequence of mRNA to a sequence of amino acids is referred to as the Genetic Code. The Starting Materials Having identified a code to perform the translation, it is now necessary to describe the process by which the genetic code is used. Four major ingredients are necessary to carry out translation: m-RNA, t-RNA, the ribosome and the initiation factors. Messenger RNA (mRNA) was discussed in the last section with a description of the post-transcriptional modification that convert the pre-mRNA in the nucleus to mature-mRNA in the cytoplasm. Transfer-RNA (tRNA) was introduced in the section on the structure of DNA and RNA and its production and post-transcriptional modification were briefly described in the previous section. As seen in the illustration below, tRNA is produced as a primary transcript in a linear primary structure. Following processing the tRNA folds into the cloverleaf secondary structure. In this structure it is easy to see the 3’ end of the structure with its ACC sequence that is common to all tRNAs. In addition the bottom loop in the structure (the anticodon loop) contains the sequence that is complementary and antiparallel to a sequence on the mRNA. This secondary structure folds to a tertiary structure in the form of an inverted L. The 3’ end is at one end of the structure and is the site that will carry a specific amino acid that corresponds to the sequence of nucleotides in the anticodon at the other end of the molecule. The process by which the correct amino acid is added to the correct tRNA is referred to as the charging of the tRNA. The formation of the charged tRNA is a two-step process as depicted in the "Charging" animation below. tRNA Structures Primary Sequence Secondary Sequence Tertiary Sequence t-RNA Double Helix The Following Learn by Doing contains an animation describing the tRNA structures. Ribosomes are quaternary complexes of rRNA and proteins. When they are not translating RNA to protein, the ribosomes exist as two separated subunits: a large (50S) subunit and a small (30S) subunit as depicted in the figure below. During the formation of the 70S initiation complex that starts translation, the two subunits come together to form the complete ribosome. 50S and 30S subunits 70 S Initiation Complex Initiation Factors are a set of proteins used to facilitate the specific binding of mRNA to the small subunit of the ribosome. Protein Synthesis The following animation describes the formation of the initiation complex, the elongation of the peptide during synthesis and the termination of the synthesis at the termination or stop codon. The process is fundamentally the same for prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The one notable exception is in the binding of the mRNA with the small subunit of the ribosome during formation of the initiation complex. Prokaryotes do not have a 5’cap to identify the end of the mRNA but they do have a consensus sequence called the Shine-Dalgarno-Sequence at the 5’ end of the mRNA. This sequence is used to align the mRNA with the appropriate site on the ribosomal subunit. In eukaryotic organisms the 5’cap provides the alignment along with multiple initiation factors. Following formation of the initiation complex, the synthesis of protein follows the same sequence in both organisms. The Consequence or Error During both replication and transcription errors can be made in the incorporation of the correct bases during the complementary copying of the DNA. In a previous section a discussion of the methods used by the system to minimize these errors has been presented. However, even with editing functions, some errors are generated and result in changing of the reading code used during translation to a protein sequence. These changes are referred to as mutations and can be categorized into four different categories described by the end result of the mutation or change. Silent mutation – Because of the degeneracy of the genetic code, multiple triplet codes represent the same amino acid. Thus, a change in the sequence for a code may not result in a change in amino acid. This particularly applies to the wobble or third base in a triplet code sequence. Thermophylic bacteria that operate optimally at high temperatures have optimized the use of the degeneracy to include codons with high G and C content to increase the thermal stability (higher melting temperature) of the resulting duplex DNA. Missense mutation – Some mutations result in the changing of a codon to represent a different amino acid. Missense mutations that change the amino acid can have no effect on the structure of a protein or may have a dramatic effect on the folding of a protein causing loss of function. Nonsense mutation – Another class of mutations may result in the changing of a codon to one of the three termination or stop codons. This will result in premature stop in the translation of a protein. Such a mutation at the beginning of the translation sequence will generally result in total loss of function which some nonsense mutations near the normal termination of the coding sequence may have little or no effect on the function of the resulting protein. Frame-shift mutations – Occasionally a mutation will occur that results in either the insertion or deletion of an extra base in the coding sequence. This type of mutation results in a shifting of the “reading” frame for the triplet codes after the insertion or deletion and production of a meaningless sequence of protein after that point. Again depending on where the insertion or deletion occurs, the effect can vary on the final product. It should also be noted that this reading frame shift will also change the position of the termination codon giving either a premature termination of the translation or an extended coding sequence. Protein Synthesis Review Gene Expression: Differences between Prokaryotes and Eukaryotes   Translation: Making Proteins The goal of translation is to make proteins. The sequence of amino acids in a protein is specified (or encoded) by the sequence of bases in the nucleic acid. You will recall that originally, the information is stored in DNA, but during transcription, an RNA copy of DNA is made. RNA molecules that contain instructions for making a protein are called messenger RNA (mRNA). The sequence of bases in the mRNA determines which amino acid will be used in the protein. Every three bases encode for a single amino acid. These three bases are called codons or triplets. The genetic code table below shows all possible combinations of three bases and the corresponding amino acids that the codons encode. For example, the mRNA codon UGG encodes for the amino acid tryptophan. Note that there are 64 codons and only 20 common amino acids. Three of the codons do not specify amino acids, but instead signal the end of translation; these are called stop codons. The remaining 61 codons encode for 20 amino acids. Of these, the codon for the amino acid methionine, AUG, has a dual role. It is used to signal the start of most protein-coding regions in the mRNA; thus, it is the start codon. The same codon is used if methionine occurs at an internal position in the protein sequence. The genetic code is redundant; some amino acids are specified by multiple codons. This redundancy will become important when we try to predict how changes in nucleotide sequences affect the amino acid sequences of proteins. Remarkably, the genetic code table is almost universal, meaning that most organisms, from bacteria to humans, specify the same amino acids using the same codons. As a result, genes from one type of organism can be transferred to, and expressed in, the cells of another organism. You will learn more about these kinds of technologies later in this unit. Examine the genetic code table and complete the Learn By Doing activity to make sure you understand how to use the table. Genetic Code Table This table summarizes the amino acids that result from each codon on mRNA. The first letter in the codon is on the left. The second is on the top, and the third is on the right. The genetic code table allows us to convert the information contained in a nucleic acid into an amino acid sequence. How does the cell do this during translation? Translation from one language to another requires a dictionary, a book that connects words in two different languages. In the cell, we need a molecule that connects codons and amino acids. That molecule is transfer RNA (tRNA). Each tRNA contains three bases that can pair with a particular codon in mRNA (complementary base pairing). Each tRNA also carries a specific amino acid. The tRNA binds mRNA via base pairing and brings the correct amino acids to the growing polypeptide chain. By Boumphreyfr(Wikipedia) (Peptide syn) CC BY-SA 3.0 The last type of RNA molecule that is critical for translation is ribosomal RNA (rRNA). rRNAs are components of the ribosome. The ribosome is a large macromolecular complex composed of rRNA and ribosomal proteins. The ribosome catalyzes the formation of peptide bonds between the amino acids. Some ribosomes are located in the cytosol and translate cytosolic proteins. Some ribosomes are attached to membranes; these ribosomes translate proteins destined to be inserted into the membrane or secreted outside the cell. To summarize, three types of RNA carry out distinct roles in translation: mRNA encodes the protein, tRNA brings amino acids to mRNA, and rRNA is a component of the ribosome required for catalysis. In the exercise below, you will simulate the process of transcription and translation and build a small protein. Complete the activity and then answer the questions below. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC The goal of translation is to make proteins. The sequence of amino acids in a protein is specified (or encoded) by the sequence of bases in the nucleic acid. You will recall that originally, the information is stored in DNA, but during transcription, an RNA copy of DNA is made. RNA molecules that contain instructions for making a protein are called messenger RNA (mRNA). The sequence of bases in the mRNA determines which amino acid will be used in the protein. Every three bases encode for a single amino acid. These three bases are called codons or triplets. The genetic code table below shows all possible combinations of three bases and the corresponding amino acids that the codons encode. For example, the mRNA codon UGG encodes for the amino acid tryptophan. Note that there are 64 codons and only 20 common amino acids. Three of the codons do not specify amino acids, but instead signal the end of translation; these are called stop codons. The remaining 61 codons encode for 20 amino acids. Of these, the codon for the amino acid methionine, AUG, has a dual role. It is used to signal the start of most protein-coding regions in the mRNA; thus, it is the start codon. The same codon is used if methionine occurs at an internal position in the protein sequence. The genetic code is redundant; some amino acids are specified by multiple codons. This redundancy will become important when we try to predict how changes in nucleotide sequences affect the amino acid sequences of proteins. Remarkably, the genetic code table is almost universal, meaning that most organisms, from bacteria to humans, specify the same amino acids using the same codons. As a result, genes from one type of organism can be transferred to, and expressed in, the cells of another organism. You will learn more about these kinds of technologies later in this unit. Examine the genetic code table and complete the Learn By Doing activity to make sure you understand how to use the table. This table summarizes the amino acids that result from each codon on mRNA. The first letter in the codon is on the left. The second is on the top, and the third is on the right. The genetic code table allows us to convert the information contained in a nucleic acid into an amino acid sequence. How does the cell do this during translation? Translation from one language to another requires a dictionary, a book that connects words in two different languages. In the cell, we need a molecule that connects codons and amino acids. That molecule is transfer RNA (tRNA). Each tRNA contains three bases that can pair with a particular codon in mRNA (complementary base pairing). Each tRNA also carries a specific amino acid. The tRNA binds mRNA via base pairing and brings the correct amino acids to the growing polypeptide chain. By Boumphreyfr(Wikipedia) (Peptide syn) CC BY-SA 3.0 The last type of RNA molecule that is critical for translation is ribosomal RNA (rRNA). rRNAs are components of the ribosome. The ribosome is a large macromolecular complex composed of rRNA and ribosomal proteins. The ribosome catalyzes the formation of peptide bonds between the amino acids. Some ribosomes are located in the cytosol and translate cytosolic proteins. Some ribosomes are attached to membranes; these ribosomes translate proteins destined to be inserted into the membrane or secreted outside the cell. To summarize, three types of RNA carry out distinct roles in translation: mRNA encodes the protein, tRNA brings amino acids to mRNA, and rRNA is a component of the ribosome required for catalysis.   Translation: Making Proteins The goal of translation is to make proteins. The sequence of amino acids in a protein is specified (or encoded) by the sequence of bases in the nucleic acid. You will recall that originally, the information is stored in DNA, but during transcription, an RNA copy of DNA is made. RNA molecules that contain instructions for making a protein are called messenger RNA (mRNA). The sequence of bases in the mRNA determines which amino acid will be used in the protein. Every three bases encode for a single amino acid. These three bases are called codons or triplets. The genetic code table below shows all possible combinations of three bases and the corresponding amino acids that the codons encode. For example, the mRNA codon UGG encodes for the amino acid tryptophan. Note that there are 64 codons and only 20 common amino acids. Three of the codons do not specify amino acids, but instead signal the end of translation; these are called stop codons. The remaining 61 codons encode for 20 amino acids. Of these, the codon for the amino acid methionine, AUG, has a dual role. It is used to signal the start of most protein-coding regions in the mRNA; thus, it is the start codon. The same codon is used if methionine occurs at an internal position in the protein sequence. The genetic code is redundant; some amino acids are specified by multiple codons. This redundancy will become important when we try to predict how changes in nucleotide sequences affect the amino acid sequences of proteins. Remarkably, the genetic code table is almost universal, meaning that most organisms, from bacteria to humans, specify the same amino acids using the same codons. As a result, genes from one type of organism can be transferred to, and expressed in, the cells of another organism. You will learn more about these kinds of technologies later in this unit. Examine the genetic code table and complete the Learn By Doing activity to make sure you understand how to use the table. Genetic Code Table This table summarizes the amino acids that result from each codon on mRNA. The first letter in the codon is on the left. The second is on the top, and the third is on the right. The genetic code table allows us to convert the information contained in a nucleic acid into an amino acid sequence. How does the cell do this during translation? Translation from one language to another requires a dictionary, a book that connects words in two different languages. In the cell, we need a molecule that connects codons and amino acids. That molecule is transfer RNA (tRNA). Each tRNA contains three bases that can pair with a particular codon in mRNA (complementary base pairing). Each tRNA also carries a specific amino acid. The tRNA binds mRNA via base pairing and brings the correct amino acids to the growing polypeptide chain. By Boumphreyfr(Wikipedia) (Peptide syn) CC BY-SA 3.0 The last type of RNA molecule that is critical for translation is ribosomal RNA (rRNA). rRNAs are components of the ribosome. The ribosome is a large macromolecular complex composed of rRNA and ribosomal proteins. The ribosome catalyzes the formation of peptide bonds between the amino acids. Some ribosomes are located in the cytosol and translate cytosolic proteins. Some ribosomes are attached to membranes; these ribosomes translate proteins destined to be inserted into the membrane or secreted outside the cell. To summarize, three types of RNA carry out distinct roles in translation: mRNA encodes the protein, tRNA brings amino acids to mRNA, and rRNA is a component of the ribosome required for catalysis. In the exercise below, you will simulate the process of transcription and translation and build a small protein. Complete the activity and then answer the questions below. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC The goal of translation is to make proteins. The sequence of amino acids in a protein is specified (or encoded) by the sequence of bases in the nucleic acid. You will recall that originally, the information is stored in DNA, but during transcription, an RNA copy of DNA is made. RNA molecules that contain instructions for making a protein are called messenger RNA (mRNA). The sequence of bases in the mRNA determines which amino acid will be used in the protein. Every three bases encode for a single amino acid. These three bases are called codons or triplets. The genetic code table below shows all possible combinations of three bases and the corresponding amino acids that the codons encode. For example, the mRNA codon UGG encodes for the amino acid tryptophan. Note that there are 64 codons and only 20 common amino acids. Three of the codons do not specify amino acids, but instead signal the end of translation; these are called stop codons. The remaining 61 codons encode for 20 amino acids. Of these, the codon for the amino acid methionine, AUG, has a dual role. It is used to signal the start of most protein-coding regions in the mRNA; thus, it is the start codon. The same codon is used if methionine occurs at an internal position in the protein sequence. The genetic code is redundant; some amino acids are specified by multiple codons. This redundancy will become important when we try to predict how changes in nucleotide sequences affect the amino acid sequences of proteins. Remarkably, the genetic code table is almost universal, meaning that most organisms, from bacteria to humans, specify the same amino acids using the same codons. As a result, genes from one type of organism can be transferred to, and expressed in, the cells of another organism. You will learn more about these kinds of technologies later in this unit. Examine the genetic code table and complete the Learn By Doing activity to make sure you understand how to use the table. This table summarizes the amino acids that result from each codon on mRNA. The first letter in the codon is on the left. The second is on the top, and the third is on the right. The genetic code table allows us to convert the information contained in a nucleic acid into an amino acid sequence. How does the cell do this during translation? Translation from one language to another requires a dictionary, a book that connects words in two different languages. In the cell, we need a molecule that connects codons and amino acids. That molecule is transfer RNA (tRNA). Each tRNA contains three bases that can pair with a particular codon in mRNA (complementary base pairing). Each tRNA also carries a specific amino acid. The tRNA binds mRNA via base pairing and brings the correct amino acids to the growing polypeptide chain. By Boumphreyfr(Wikipedia) (Peptide syn) CC BY-SA 3.0 The last type of RNA molecule that is critical for translation is ribosomal RNA (rRNA). rRNAs are components of the ribosome. The ribosome is a large macromolecular complex composed of rRNA and ribosomal proteins. The ribosome catalyzes the formation of peptide bonds between the amino acids. Some ribosomes are located in the cytosol and translate cytosolic proteins. Some ribosomes are attached to membranes; these ribosomes translate proteins destined to be inserted into the membrane or secreted outside the cell. To summarize, three types of RNA carry out distinct roles in translation: mRNA encodes the protein, tRNA brings amino acids to mRNA, and rRNA is a component of the ribosome required for catalysis.   Explanations –carbon The –carbon is the carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon. Both of the alpha and carbonyl carbon are found in all amino acids. . Acidic Amino Acids Amino acids with acidic side chains contain a carboxyl group on the side chain. At physiological pH, acidic groups loose proton (act as an acid) and become negatively charged. Aromatic Amino Acids Amino acids with a side chain that contains a ring structure with conjugated double bonds. Conjugated double bonds refer to the alternating arrangement of bonds in a molecule: double-single-double bond. The benzene ring is the best known example of an aromatic group. Two amino acids, phenylalanine and tyrosine, contain the benzene ring. Aromatic rings can include atoms other than carbon. Basic Amino Acids Amino acids with basic side chains contain basic nitrogen-containing groups. At physiological pH, basic groups gain a proton (acting as a base) and become positively charged. Non-polar Amino Acids Amino acids with non-polar side chains contain, primarily, hydrocarbons and no polar functional groups containing electronegative atoms. Note that the term “nonpolar” refers only to the side chain, while the amino acid as a whole is charged at physiological pH due to the carboxyl and amino groups. Polar Amino Acids Amino acids with polar side chains contain polar uncharged groups, for example amide and hydroxyl. The –carbon is the carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon. Both of the alpha and carbonyl carbon are found in all amino acids. . Amino acids with acidic side chains contain a carboxyl group on the side chain. At physiological pH, acidic groups loose proton (act as an acid) and become negatively charged. Amino acids with a side chain that contains a ring structure with conjugated double bonds. Conjugated double bonds refer to the alternating arrangement of bonds in a molecule: double-single-double bond. The benzene ring is the best known example of an aromatic group. Two amino acids, phenylalanine and tyrosine, contain the benzene ring. Aromatic rings can include atoms other than carbon. Amino acids with basic side chains contain basic nitrogen-containing groups. At physiological pH, basic groups gain a proton (acting as a base) and become positively charged. Amino acids with non-polar side chains contain, primarily, hydrocarbons and no polar functional groups containing electronegative atoms. Note that the term “nonpolar” refers only to the side chain, while the amino acid as a whole is charged at physiological pH due to the carboxyl and amino groups. Amino acids with polar side chains contain polar uncharged groups, for example amide and hydroxyl. 