4. [u'lipids', u'lipid', u'molecules']
   Carbohydrates In this section, we will discuss the structure of sugars, and how they are organized into larger molecules called carbohydrates. In addition, we will the explore the function of carbohydrates inside a cell. We have a low stakes quiz.   Themes in Biology: Summary Summary The themes we explored in this module will reappear again and again as we progress through the course. We will revisit two of the themes (Structure Determines Function and Matter and Energy) in the next unit, when we learn more about the basics of chemistry. Before taking the quiz, review the recurrent themes and key terms presented in this module. When you are ready, you can check your understanding of this content by taking the “Themes in Biology” quiz below. Key Terms Check your understanding of the following key terms that were discussed during this module: development energy enzyme evolution growth homeostasis nutrients reproduction selection The themes we explored in this module will reappear again and again as we progress through the course. We will revisit two of the themes (Structure Determines Function and Matter and Energy) in the next unit, when we learn more about the basics of chemistry. Before taking the quiz, review the recurrent themes and key terms presented in this module. When you are ready, you can check your understanding of this content by taking the “Themes in Biology” quiz below. Check your understanding of the following key terms that were discussed during this module: development energy enzyme evolution growth homeostasis nutrients reproduction selection   Scientific Inquiry: Summary Summary Understanding the process of science will empower you to be a critical consumer of information. This takes practice. Throughout this course, you will have opportunities to learn about practical applications of the scientific process. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before getting started on that, check your understanding by reviewing the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. When you are ready, check your understanding of the Scientific Inquiry Method by taking the quiz linked below. control group experimental group independent variable scientific observation dependent variable hypothesis scientific experiment variable Understanding the process of science will empower you to be a critical consumer of information. This takes practice. Throughout this course, you will have opportunities to learn about practical applications of the scientific process. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before getting started on that, check your understanding by reviewing the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. When you are ready, check your understanding of the Scientific Inquiry Method by taking the quiz linked below. control group experimental group independent variable scientific observation dependent variable hypothesis scientific experiment variable   Atoms: Summary Summary Atoms are the building blocks for all matter. Now that you understand the structure of the atom, you can use atoms to build more complex structures, like molecules. This is what you’ll learn about in the next module. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before getting started on that, check your understanding by reviewing the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. When you are ready, check your understanding of atoms by taking the quiz linked below. atom atomic mass atomic number electron element ion isotopes matter nucleus neutron Periodic Chart proton valence electrons Atoms are the building blocks for all matter. Now that you understand the structure of the atom, you can use atoms to build more complex structures, like molecules. This is what you’ll learn about in the next module. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before getting started on that, check your understanding by reviewing the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. When you are ready, check your understanding of atoms by taking the quiz linked below. atom atomic mass atomic number electron element ion isotopes matter nucleus neutron Periodic Chart proton valence electrons   Chemical Bonding: Summary Summary As you’ve seen, there are many ways that atoms interact with each other and form chemical bonds. In the next module, we’ll take a closer look at water, which is one of the most biologically important molecules on the planet. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before proceeding, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. When you are ready, check your understanding of chemical bonding by taking the quiz linked below. chemical bonds covalent bonds electronegativity hydrogen bonds ionic bonds molecule molecular drawing molecular formula partial charge polar covalent bond As you’ve seen, there are many ways that atoms interact with each other and form chemical bonds. In the next module, we’ll take a closer look at water, which is one of the most biologically important molecules on the planet. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before proceeding, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and any additional information. When you are ready, check your understanding of chemical bonding by taking the quiz linked below. chemical bonds covalent bonds electronegativity hydrogen bonds ionic bonds molecule molecular drawing molecular formula partial charge polar covalent bond   Water: Summary Summary You now know about some of the special properties of water, arguably the most important molecule for life on Earth. In the next module, you’ll explore pH and learn about how acids and bases affect living systems. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. adhesion amphipathic aqueous solutions cohesion hydrophilic hydrophobic micelles nonpolar molecules polar molecules solute solutions solvent surface tension You now know about some of the special properties of water, arguably the most important molecule for life on Earth. In the next module, you’ll explore pH and learn about how acids and bases affect living systems. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. adhesion amphipathic aqueous solutions cohesion hydrophilic hydrophobic micelles nonpolar molecules polar molecules solute solutions solvent surface tension   Acids and Bases: Summary Summary The concentration of hydrogen ions in solution can have important effects on biological systems. Changes in the hydrogen ion concentration in your body can result in disease and even death. Changes in the hydrogen ion concentration of the oceans can have dramatic impacts on life in the sea, affecting all levels of the food chain. Even something as simple as soil pH can affect the kinds of plants that can live in an area. Before proceeding with the course, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this module by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. acids bases buffers neutral neutralization pH The concentration of hydrogen ions in solution can have important effects on biological systems. Changes in the hydrogen ion concentration in your body can result in disease and even death. Changes in the hydrogen ion concentration of the oceans can have dramatic impacts on life in the sea, affecting all levels of the food chain. Even something as simple as soil pH can affect the kinds of plants that can live in an area. Before proceeding with the course, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this module by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. acids bases buffers neutral neutralization pH   Carbohydrates: Summary Summary All living organisms contain four major classes of macromolecules, one of which is carbohydrates. Often referred to as "carbs," carbohydrate molecules consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a 1:2:1 ratio. Complex carbohydrates are built when simple sugar molecules are covalently bonded together. The main function of carbohydrates is to store energy, which the living organism can use at a later time. Carbohydrates also function as structural materials and in cellular signaling and recognition. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before starting, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. dietary fiber disaccharide glycogen monosaccharide polysaccharide starch All living organisms contain four major classes of macromolecules, one of which is carbohydrates. Often referred to as "carbs," carbohydrate molecules consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a 1:2:1 ratio. Complex carbohydrates are built when simple sugar molecules are covalently bonded together. The main function of carbohydrates is to store energy, which the living organism can use at a later time. Carbohydrates also function as structural materials and in cellular signaling and recognition. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before starting, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. dietary fiber disaccharide glycogen monosaccharide polysaccharide starch   Organic Molecules: Summary All organic molecules contain carbon atoms that form covalent bonds with hydrogen atoms. When organic molecules combine to form proteins, carbohydrates, lipids and nucleic acids, the building blocks for life are established. In the next modules, you will begin exploring each of these groups, starting with carbohydrates. But before you move on, make sure you understand the following key terms. Then take the module quiz when you’re ready. carbohydrates inorganic nucleic acids proteins chemical potential energy lipids organic molecules Quiz   Carbohydrates: Summary Summary All living organisms contain four major classes of macromolecules, one of which is carbohydrates. Often referred to as "carbs," carbohydrate molecules consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a 1:2:1 ratio. Complex carbohydrates are built when simple sugar molecules are covalently bonded together. The main function of carbohydrates is to store energy, which the living organism can use at a later time. Carbohydrates also function as structural materials, and in cellular signaling and recognition. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before starting, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. aldoses dietary fiber disaccharide glycogen monosaccharide polysaccharide starch subunit All living organisms contain four major classes of macromolecules, one of which is carbohydrates. Often referred to as "carbs," carbohydrate molecules consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a 1:2:1 ratio. Complex carbohydrates are built when simple sugar molecules are covalently bonded together. The main function of carbohydrates is to store energy, which the living organism can use at a later time. Carbohydrates also function as structural materials, and in cellular signaling and recognition. You are almost ready to take the module quiz. Before starting, review the key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of this content by taking the quiz linked at the bottom of this page. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. aldoses dietary fiber disaccharide glycogen monosaccharide polysaccharide starch subunit   Organic Molecules: Summary and Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. carbohydrates inorganic nucleic acids proteins chemical potential energy lipids organic molecules   Introduction to Lipids Lipids are a diverse group of macromolecules united by their hydrophobic, nonpolar nature. We are most familiar with the lipids known as fats. Fats are used to store energy for later use. They also provide structural support and cushioning for many animals. Some dietary fats are healthier than others. In this module, you will learn about the differences between saturated, unsaturated, and trans fats. People are most familiar with fats, but there are other types of molecules that are not fats, but are lipids. Cholesterol is a familiar example of a lipid that is not actually a fat. You will learn more about cholesterol in this module as well.   What Are Lipids? Lipids are a diverse group of macromolecules united by their hydrophobic, nonpolar nature. We are most familiar with the lipids known as fats. Fats are used to store energy for later use. They also provide structural support and cushioning for many animals. Some dietary fats are healthier than others. In this module, you will learn about the differences between saturated, unsaturated, and trans fats. People are most familiar with fats, but there are types of lipids that are not fats. Cholesterol is a familiar example of a lipid that is not actually a fat. You will learn more about cholesterol in this module as well. Characteristics of Lipids Lipids include a distinct group of compounds that are united by two common features. First, they are largely nonpolar in nature. This is because they are hydrocarbons that include many nonpolar carbon-carbon or carbon-hydrogen bonds. Second, because lipids are nonpolar, they are also hydrophobic (water-hating), or insoluble in water. Lipids perform many different functions in a cell. Cells store energy for long-term use in the form of fats. Lipids also provide insulation from the environment for plants and animals. For example, they help keep aquatic birds and mammals dry because of their hydrophobic nature. Lipids are also the building blocks of many hormones and are an important constituent of the cell’s plasma membrane. Lipids include fats, oils, waxes, phospholipids, and steroids. The table below summarizes the charateristics of lipids. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Type of Lipid Subunit Molecule General Function Examples fats and oils glycerol and fatty acids Stores energy for use at a later time. triglycerides, saturated fats, unsaturated fats, trans fats phospholipids fatty acids and phosphate Provides structure to cell membranes; that is, a pretective barrier surrounding the cell or separating compartments and forming organelles within the cell. lipid bilayer membrane steroids carbon ring molecules Provides structure to membranes; and, regulate many developmental, metabolic, and energy processes. cholesterol; and, naturally occurring: estrogen, testosterone waxes esters of fatty acids Forms protective layers on plants and animals that repel water. beeswax, birds feathers, carnauba wax, jojoba oil, lanolin Key Characteristics Summary of Lipid Structures and Functions Because lipids are such a diverse group of biomolecules, we will study them in four categories. Examine the following table for a general understanding of lipid structure and function. Lipids include a distinct group of compounds that are united by two common features. First, they are largely nonpolar in nature. This is because they are hydrocarbons that include many nonpolar carbon-carbon or carbon-hydrogen bonds. Second, because lipids are nonpolar, they are also hydrophobic (water-hating), or insoluble in water. Lipids perform many different functions in a cell. Cells store energy for long-term use in the form of fats. Lipids also provide insulation from the environment for plants and animals. For example, they help keep aquatic birds and mammals dry because of their hydrophobic nature. Lipids are also the building blocks of many hormones and are an important constituent of the cell’s plasma membrane. Lipids include fats, oils, waxes, phospholipids, and steroids. The table below summarizes the charateristics of lipids. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Type of Lipid Subunit Molecule General Function Examples fats and oils glycerol and fatty acids Stores energy for use at a later time. triglycerides, saturated fats, unsaturated fats, trans fats phospholipids fatty acids and phosphate Provides structure to cell membranes; that is, a pretective barrier surrounding the cell or separating compartments and forming organelles within the cell. lipid bilayer membrane steroids carbon ring molecules Provides structure to membranes; and, regulate many developmental, metabolic, and energy processes. cholesterol; and, naturally occurring: estrogen, testosterone waxes esters of fatty acids Forms protective layers on plants and animals that repel water. beeswax, birds feathers, carnauba wax, jojoba oil, lanolin Key Characteristics Because lipids are such a diverse group of biomolecules, we will study them in four categories. Examine the following table for a general understanding of lipid structure and function.   Lipids: Summary Summary Lipids are a diverse group. These molecules function in energy storage, cell communication, and protection. They vary in shape from multiple carbon rings to long carbon chains. However, they are united as a group because they are mostly made of hydrocarbons. Lipids are essential to life. Phospholipids form the bulk of cell membranes, which define the cell. Steroids can be used to help maintain proper membrane fluidity and are used as long-distance messenger molecules in some animals. Triglycerides are an excellent source of energy storage for organisms. Maintaining proper lipid levels is also essential to human health. A deeper understanding of the chemistry and physiology of these molecules can help us develop a better understanding of ourselves. Key Terms Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. cholesterol endotherms fatty acids lipids lipoproteins phospholipids saturated fats steroids trans fats triglycerides unsaturated fats waxes Lipids are a diverse group. These molecules function in energy storage, cell communication, and protection. They vary in shape from multiple carbon rings to long carbon chains. However, they are united as a group because they are mostly made of hydrocarbons. Lipids are essential to life. Phospholipids form the bulk of cell membranes, which define the cell. Steroids can be used to help maintain proper membrane fluidity and are used as long-distance messenger molecules in some animals. Triglycerides are an excellent source of energy storage for organisms. Maintaining proper lipid levels is also essential to human health. A deeper understanding of the chemistry and physiology of these molecules can help us develop a better understanding of ourselves. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of proteins by taking the quiz linked below. cholesterol endotherms fatty acids lipids lipoproteins phospholipids saturated fats steroids trans fats triglycerides unsaturated fats waxes   Lipids Quiz   Pathways and Regulation: Summary The more you learn about living organisms, the more complicated they seem. All organisms exist because of a series of complex chemical reactions that are tightly regulated to maintain homoeostasis. Review the key terms from this module and when you are ready, take the module quiz. Key Terms The following key terms were discussed in this module: anabolic catabolic enzymes inhibitor metabolic pathways substrates The following key terms were discussed in this module: anabolic catabolic enzymes inhibitor metabolic pathways substrates   Gene Regulation: Summary Summary Manipulation of DNA has opened an incredible array of possibilities for humanity. From the industrial production of biological molecules in bacteria, to gene therapy, biotechnology has brought dramatic changes to medicine, agriculture, forensics, and many other disciplines. In this module you revisited how a gene can be inserted and expressed in a bacterium. making possible the large scale production of an important hormone. Key Terms Review the following key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of gene structure and regulation by taking the quiz linked below. epigenetics nucleosomes operon promoter repressor terminator Manipulation of DNA has opened an incredible array of possibilities for humanity. From the industrial production of biological molecules in bacteria, to gene therapy, biotechnology has brought dramatic changes to medicine, agriculture, forensics, and many other disciplines. In this module you revisited how a gene can be inserted and expressed in a bacterium. making possible the large scale production of an important hormone. Review the following key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of gene structure and regulation by taking the quiz linked below. epigenetics nucleosomes operon promoter repressor terminator   Gene Regulation: Summary Summary Manipulation of DNA has opened an incredible array of possibilities for humanity. From the industrial production of biological molecules in bacteria, to gene therapy, biotechnology has brought dramatic changes to medicine, agriculture, forensics, and many other disciplines. In this module you revisited how a gene can be inserted and expressed in a bacterium. making possible the large scale production of an important hormone. Key Terms Review the following key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of gene structure and regulation by taking the quiz linked below. epigenetics nucleosomes operon promoter repressor terminator Manipulation of DNA has opened an incredible array of possibilities for humanity. From the industrial production of biological molecules in bacteria, to gene therapy, biotechnology has brought dramatic changes to medicine, agriculture, forensics, and many other disciplines. In this module you revisited how a gene can be inserted and expressed in a bacterium. making possible the large scale production of an important hormone. Review the following key terms introduced in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of gene structure and regulation by taking the quiz linked below. epigenetics nucleosomes operon promoter repressor terminator 