15. [u'enzyme', u'enzymes', u'substrate']
   Enzyme Catalysis Catalysis After exploring enzyme catalysis and kinetics, students will be able to: Describe the general reaction for an enzyme catalyzed reaction. Explain what happens before and after the formation of the ES complex. Graphically represent the relationship, between each of the following, for an enzyme catalyzed reaction: 1) velocity and substrate concentration; 2) velocity and enzyme concentration; 3) velocity and pH; and, 4) velocity and temperature. Explain, and graphically illustrate, the effect of each inhibitor type on a velocity vs. substrate concentration graph: a) non-competitive and b) competitive. Define activation energy and the effect an enzyme has upon it. Previously, you explored how proteins interact with their ligands, using the example of myoglobin and oxygen. Proteins are not only storage proteins, but can also act as hormone receptors as seen with the estrogen receptor and many serve as enzymes that catalyze processes in the cell. Catalyst A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. General Reaction Cells operate within the laws of chemistry and physics, and utilize only chemical reactions that occur naturally. Many of these reactions are extremely slow, requiring years to eons to complete. For example, your favorite book contains paper made of cellulose from trees. This paper will take decades to degrade in the environment and mammalian systems lack the enzyme that is specific to degrade cellulose, however, a bacteria found in the stomach of cows and other ruminants have the ability to digest cellulose and provide glucose to the cow. For a cow to survive it cannot wait decades to digest a meal of hay. To meet the speed of life, chemical reactions in cells are sped up by enzyme catalysts. Enzymes bind to substrates in a manner similar to the way myoglobin binds oxygen or the estradiol binds to the estrogen receptor, but enzymes can go one step further. In this case the ligand is specifically referred to as the substrate (the molecule that the enzyme will convert to product) and it binds to a specific binding region of the enzyme referred to as the active site. Once bound, the ligand, or substrate, can either simply reversibly come off the enzyme, or it can be converted into a new compound or product. The general form of the reaction is: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E Where E = enzyme, S = substrate, ES = the enzyme•substrate complex, and P = product. The square brackets around the ES complex indicate that the complex is inferred, because it is very unstable and generally not directly measurable. Catalysts Lower Activation Energy Enzymes and other catalysts lower the activation energy for converting a specific substrate to product, as shown in the graph below. The activation energy is the energy required for a chemical reaction to proceed to product. By lowering the activation energy, a chemical reaction can proceed much more quickly. Note that enzymes have no effect on the free energy of the reaction. Enzymes are not consumed in the process, but are recycled for further catalysis. Catalysts Lower Activation Energy This graph shows how enzymes catalyze reactions by lowering the activation energy. Without a catalyst, the amount of energy required for the reaction is large. By fixing a substrate in its active site, enzymes lower the activation energy, increasing the rate of the reaction. Cells operate within the laws of chemistry and physics, and utilize only chemical reactions that occur naturally. Many of these reactions are extremely slow, requiring years to eons to complete. For example, your favorite book contains paper made of cellulose from trees. This paper will take decades to degrade in the environment and mammalian systems lack the enzyme that is specific to degrade cellulose, however, a bacteria found in the stomach of cows and other ruminants have the ability to digest cellulose and provide glucose to the cow. For a cow to survive it cannot wait decades to digest a meal of hay. To meet the speed of life, chemical reactions in cells are sped up by enzyme catalysts. Enzymes bind to substrates in a manner similar to the way myoglobin binds oxygen or the estradiol binds to the estrogen receptor, but enzymes can go one step further. In this case the ligand is specifically referred to as the substrate (the molecule that the enzyme will convert to product) and it binds to a specific binding region of the enzyme referred to as the active site. Once bound, the ligand, or substrate, can either simply reversibly come off the enzyme, or it can be converted into a new compound or product. The general form of the reaction is: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E Where E = enzyme, S = substrate, ES = the enzyme•substrate complex, and P = product. The square brackets around the ES complex indicate that the complex is inferred, because it is very unstable and generally not directly measurable. Enzymes and other catalysts lower the activation energy for converting a specific substrate to product, as shown in the graph below. The activation energy is the energy required for a chemical reaction to proceed to product. By lowering the activation energy, a chemical reaction can proceed much more quickly. Note that enzymes have no effect on the free energy of the reaction. Enzymes are not consumed in the process, but are recycled for further catalysis. Catalysts Lower Activation Energy This graph shows how enzymes catalyze reactions by lowering the activation energy. Without a catalyst, the amount of energy required for the reaction is large. By fixing a substrate in its active site, enzymes lower the activation energy, increasing the rate of the reaction.   Enzyme Kinetics Kinetics After exploring enzyme catalysis and kinetics, students will be able to: Describe the general reaction for an enzyme catalyzed reaction. Explain what happens before and after the formation of the ES complex. Graphically represent the relationship, between each of the following, for an enzyme catalyzed reaction: 1) velocity and substrate concentration; 2) velocity and enzyme concentration; 3) velocity and pH; and, 4) velocity and temperature. Explain, and graphically illustrate, the effect of each inhibitor type on a velocity vs. substrate concentration graph: a) non-competitive and b) competitive. Define activation energy and the effect an enzyme has upon it. The Rate of Product Formation. In the last section, the action of an enzyme was described as taking place in two parts. The first part involves the binding of substrate to enzyme in a reversible equilibrium as modeled in the way of ligand binding. The second part involves the conversion of the [ES] complex to product and the release of the product from the enzyme. This step represents the catalysis step in the enzyme catalyzed reaction. These parts are illustrated in the overall reaction below: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E The rate, or velocity (v), of the reaction is usually determined by measuring the amount of product (P) produced/unit time: v=dP/dt The dependence of the reaction velocity on the kinetics of substrate binding, substrate release, and conversion to product is difficult to calculate under all conditions. However, if steady-state conditions are assumed then a very simple relationship can be found. Steady-state conditions imply that during the measurement the concentrations of the various species, e.g. [ES] ,do not change. Under steady-state conditions the following equation describes the relationship between the measured rate (v) of the reaction and the initial concentration of substrate (S) and the concentration of the enzyme. This equation is the Michaelis Menton-Briggs Haldane equation. v ( E t , [ S ] ) = k CAT E t [ S ] K M + [ S ] = V MAX [ S ] K M + [ S ] In this equation, kcat is the rate at which the [ES] complex decays to product. Vmax is kcat multiplied by the total amount of enzyme, Et. It is therefore the maximum velocity at which the reaction can occur under a fixed enzyme concentration. Km is also a constant that reflects the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate and is an approximation of the dissociation equilibrium constant. Both kcat and Km depend on the particular enzyme and substrate. This equation can also be represented graphically by the hyperbolic curve illustrated below. This curve can be dissected into two parts: a region at the beginning where the velocity of the reaction increases proportionately with the amount of substrate present initially in the reaction, and the later region of the curve, at high substrate concentration, where the rate of the reaction is independent of the substrate concentration. This latter region defines saturation of the enzyme by substrate and the velocity approaches the value of Vmax. Effect of substrate concentration on enzyme velocity. Enzyme catalysis is affected by many factors including substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, temperature, and the presence of inhibitors. The learn-by-doing on this page will explore the effect of substrate concentration. The following page will explore the effect of enzyme concentration, pH, temperature, and inhibitors on the velocity of the enzyme catalyzed reaction. Enzyme Catalysis This simulation will demonstrate the effect of substrate on the reaction velocity. In the last section, the action of an enzyme was described as taking place in two parts. The first part involves the binding of substrate to enzyme in a reversible equilibrium as modeled in the way of ligand binding. The second part involves the conversion of the [ES] complex to product and the release of the product from the enzyme. This step represents the catalysis step in the enzyme catalyzed reaction. These parts are illustrated in the overall reaction below: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E The rate, or velocity (v), of the reaction is usually determined by measuring the amount of product (P) produced/unit time: v=dP/dt The dependence of the reaction velocity on the kinetics of substrate binding, substrate release, and conversion to product is difficult to calculate under all conditions. However, if steady-state conditions are assumed then a very simple relationship can be found. Steady-state conditions imply that during the measurement the concentrations of the various species, e.g. [ES] ,do not change. Under steady-state conditions the following equation describes the relationship between the measured rate (v) of the reaction and the initial concentration of substrate (S) and the concentration of the enzyme. This equation is the Michaelis Menton-Briggs Haldane equation. v ( E t , [ S ] ) = k CAT E t [ S ] K M + [ S ] = V MAX [ S ] K M + [ S ] In this equation, kcat is the rate at which the [ES] complex decays to product. Vmax is kcat multiplied by the total amount of enzyme, Et. It is therefore the maximum velocity at which the reaction can occur under a fixed enzyme concentration. Km is also a constant that reflects the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate and is an approximation of the dissociation equilibrium constant. Both kcat and Km depend on the particular enzyme and substrate. This equation can also be represented graphically by the hyperbolic curve illustrated below. This curve can be dissected into two parts: a region at the beginning where the velocity of the reaction increases proportionately with the amount of substrate present initially in the reaction, and the later region of the curve, at high substrate concentration, where the rate of the reaction is independent of the substrate concentration. This latter region defines saturation of the enzyme by substrate and the velocity approaches the value of Vmax. Effect of substrate concentration on enzyme velocity. Enzyme catalysis is affected by many factors including substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, temperature, and the presence of inhibitors. The learn-by-doing on this page will explore the effect of substrate concentration. The following page will explore the effect of enzyme concentration, pH, temperature, and inhibitors on the velocity of the enzyme catalyzed reaction. This simulation will demonstrate the effect of substrate on the reaction velocity.   Enzyme Kinetics Kinetics Give the general reaction for an enzyme catalyzed reaction. Describe what primarily happens before, and after, the formation of the ES complex. Graphical representation: Be able to graph the relationship, between each of the following, for an enzyme catalyzed reaction: 1) velocity and substrate concentration; 2) velocity and enzyme concentration; 3) velocity and pH; 4) velocity and temperature. Effect of inhibitors: Be able to explain, and graphically illustrate, the effect of each inhibitor type on a velocity vs substrate concentration graph: a) non-competitive and b) competitive. Be able to define activation energy and the effect an enzyme has upon it. The Rate of Product Formation. In the last section, the action of an enzyme was described as taking place in two parts. The first part involves the binding of substrate to enzyme in a reversible equilibrium as modeled in the way of ligand binding. The second part involves the conversion of the [ES] complex to product and the release of the product from the enzyme. This step represents the catalysis step in the enzyme catalyzed reaction. These parts are illustrated in the overall reaction below: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E The rate, or velocity (v), of the reaction is usually determined by measuring the amount of product (P) produced/unit time: v=dP/dt The dependence of the reaction velocity on the kinetics of substrate binding, substrate release, and conversion to product is difficult to calculate under all conditions. However, if steady-state conditions are assumed then a very simple relationship can be found. Steady-state conditions imply that during the measurement the concentrations of the various species, e.g. [ES] ,do not change. Under steady-state conditions the following equation describes the relationship between the measured rate (v) of the reaction and the initial concentration of substrate (S) and the concentration of the enzyme. This equation is the Michaelis Menton-Briggs Haldane equation. v ( E t , [ S ] ) = k CAT E t [ S ] K M + [ S ] = V MAX [ S ] K M + [ S ] In this equation, kcat is the rate at which the [ES] complex decays to product. Vmax is kcat multiplied by the total amount of enzyme, Et. It is therefore the maximum velocity at which the reaction can occur under a fixed enzyme concentration. Km is also a constant that reflects the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate and is an approximation of the dissociation equilibrium constant. Both kcat and Km depend on the particular enzyme and substrate. This equation can also be represented graphically by the hyperbolic curve illustrated below. This curve can be dissected into two parts: a region at the beginning where the velocity of the reaction increases proportionately with the amount of substrate present initially in the reaction, and the later region of the curve, at high substrate concentration, where the rate of the reaction is independent of the substrate concentration. This latter region defines saturation of the enzyme by substrate and the velocity approaches the value of Vmax. Effect of substrate concentration on enzyme velocity. Enzyme catalysis is affected by many factors including substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, temperature, and the presence of inhibitors. The learn-by-doing on this page will explore the effect of substrate concentration. The following page will explore the effect of enzyme concentration, pH, temperature, and inhibitors on the velocity of the enzyme catalyzed reaction. Enzyme Catalysis This simulation will demonstrate the effect of substrate on the reaction velocity. In the last section, the action of an enzyme was described as taking place in two parts. The first part involves the binding of substrate to enzyme in a reversible equilibrium as modeled in the way of ligand binding. The second part involves the conversion of the [ES] complex to product and the release of the product from the enzyme. This step represents the catalysis step in the enzyme catalyzed reaction. These parts are illustrated in the overall reaction below: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E The rate, or velocity (v), of the reaction is usually determined by measuring the amount of product (P) produced/unit time: v=dP/dt The dependence of the reaction velocity on the kinetics of substrate binding, substrate release, and conversion to product is difficult to calculate under all conditions. However, if steady-state conditions are assumed then a very simple relationship can be found. Steady-state conditions imply that during the measurement the concentrations of the various species, e.g. [ES] ,do not change. Under steady-state conditions the following equation describes the relationship between the measured rate (v) of the reaction and the initial concentration of substrate (S) and the concentration of the enzyme. This equation is the Michaelis Menton-Briggs Haldane equation. v ( E t , [ S ] ) = k CAT E t [ S ] K M + [ S ] = V MAX [ S ] K M + [ S ] In this equation, kcat is the rate at which the [ES] complex decays to product. Vmax is kcat multiplied by the total amount of enzyme, Et. It is therefore the maximum velocity at which the reaction can occur under a fixed enzyme concentration. Km is also a constant that reflects the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate and is an approximation of the dissociation equilibrium constant. Both kcat and Km depend on the particular enzyme and substrate. This equation can also be represented graphically by the hyperbolic curve illustrated below. This curve can be dissected into two parts: a region at the beginning where the velocity of the reaction increases proportionately with the amount of substrate present initially in the reaction, and the later region of the curve, at high substrate concentration, where the rate of the reaction is independent of the substrate concentration. This latter region defines saturation of the enzyme by substrate and the velocity approaches the value of Vmax. Effect of substrate concentration on enzyme velocity. Enzyme catalysis is affected by many factors including substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, temperature, and the presence of inhibitors. The learn-by-doing on this page will explore the effect of substrate concentration. The following page will explore the effect of enzyme concentration, pH, temperature, and inhibitors on the velocity of the enzyme catalyzed reaction. This simulation will demonstrate the effect of substrate on the reaction velocity.   Enzyme Kinetics Kinetics Give the general reaction for an enzyme catalyzed reaction. Describe what primarily happens before, and after, the formation of the ES complex. Graphical representation: Be able to graph the relationship, between each of the following, for an enzyme catalyzed reaction: 1) velocity and substrate concentration; 2) velocity and enzyme concentration; 3) velocity and pH; 4) velocity and temperature. Effect of inhibitors: Be able to explain, and graphically illustrate, the effect of each inhibitor type on a velocity vs substrate concentration graph: a) non-competitive and b) competitive. Be able to define activation energy and the effect an enzyme has upon it. The Rate of Product Formation. In the last section, the action of an enzyme was described as taking place in two parts. The first part involves the binding of substrate to enzyme in a reversible equilibrium as modeled in the way of ligand binding. The second part involves the conversion of the [ES] complex to product and the release of the product from the enzyme. This step represents the catalysis step in the enzyme catalyzed reaction. These parts are illustrated in the overall reaction below: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E The rate, or velocity (v), of the reaction is usually determined by measuring the amount of product (P) produced/unit time: v=dP/dt The dependence of the reaction velocity on the kinetics of substrate binding, substrate release, and conversion to product is difficult to calculate under all conditions. However, if steady-state conditions are assumed then a very simple relationship can be found. Steady-state conditions imply that during the measurement the concentrations of the various species, e.g. [ES] ,do not change. Under steady-state conditions the following equation describes the relationship between the measured rate (v) of the reaction and the initial concentration of substrate (S) and the concentration of the enzyme. This equation is the Michaelis Menton-Briggs Haldane equation. v ( E t , [ S ] ) = k CAT E t [ S ] K M + [ S ] = V MAX [ S ] K M + [ S ] In this equation, kcat is the rate at which the [ES] complex decays to product. Vmax is kcat multiplied by the total amount of enzyme, Et. It is therefore the maximum velocity at which the reaction can occur under a fixed enzyme concentration. Km is also a constant that reflects the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate and is an approximation of the dissociation equilibrium constant. Both kcat and Km depend on the particular enzyme and substrate. This equation can also be represented graphically by the hyperbolic curve illustrated below. This curve can be dissected into two parts: a region at the beginning where the velocity of the reaction increases proportionately with the amount of substrate present initially in the reaction, and the later region of the curve, at high substrate concentration, where the rate of the reaction is independent of the substrate concentration. This latter region defines saturation of the enzyme by substrate and the velocity approaches the value of Vmax. Effect of substrate concentration on enzyme velocity. Enzyme catalysis is affected by many factors including substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, temperature, and the presence of inhibitors. The learn-by-doing on this page will explore the effect of substrate concentration. The following page will explore the effect of enzyme concentration, pH, temperature, and inhibitors on the velocity of the enzyme catalyzed reaction. Enzyme Catalysis This simulation will demonstrate the effect of substrate on the reaction velocity. In the last section, the action of an enzyme was described as taking place in two parts. The first part involves the binding of substrate to enzyme in a reversible equilibrium as modeled in the way of ligand binding. The second part involves the conversion of the [ES] complex to product and the release of the product from the enzyme. This step represents the catalysis step in the enzyme catalyzed reaction. These parts are illustrated in the overall reaction below: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E The rate, or velocity (v), of the reaction is usually determined by measuring the amount of product (P) produced/unit time: v=dP/dt The dependence of the reaction velocity on the kinetics of substrate binding, substrate release, and conversion to product is difficult to calculate under all conditions. However, if steady-state conditions are assumed then a very simple relationship can be found. Steady-state conditions imply that during the measurement the concentrations of the various species, e.g. [ES] ,do not change. Under steady-state conditions the following equation describes the relationship between the measured rate (v) of the reaction and the initial concentration of substrate (S) and the concentration of the enzyme. This equation is the Michaelis Menton-Briggs Haldane equation. v ( E t , [ S ] ) = k CAT E t [ S ] K M + [ S ] = V MAX [ S ] K M + [ S ] In this equation, kcat is the rate at which the [ES] complex decays to product. Vmax is kcat multiplied by the total amount of enzyme, Et. It is therefore the maximum velocity at which the reaction can occur under a fixed enzyme concentration. Km is also a constant that reflects the affinity of the enzyme for the substrate and is an approximation of the dissociation equilibrium constant. Both kcat and Km depend on the particular enzyme and substrate. This equation can also be represented graphically by the hyperbolic curve illustrated below. This curve can be dissected into two parts: a region at the beginning where the velocity of the reaction increases proportionately with the amount of substrate present initially in the reaction, and the later region of the curve, at high substrate concentration, where the rate of the reaction is independent of the substrate concentration. This latter region defines saturation of the enzyme by substrate and the velocity approaches the value of Vmax. Effect of substrate concentration on enzyme velocity. Enzyme catalysis is affected by many factors including substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, temperature, and the presence of inhibitors. The learn-by-doing on this page will explore the effect of substrate concentration. The following page will explore the effect of enzyme concentration, pH, temperature, and inhibitors on the velocity of the enzyme catalyzed reaction. This simulation will demonstrate the effect of substrate on the reaction velocity.   Enzyme Inhibition Inhibition Upon completion of this topic, students will be able to: Describe how temperature affects enzyme kinetics. Describe how pH affects enzyme kinetics. Explain, and graphically illustrate, the effect of each inhibitor type on a velocity vs. substrate concentration graph: a) non-competitive and b) competitive. Left alone, enzymes would deplete a cell of all the substrates. In some cases, this may be desirable, such as enzymes that degrade old, worn-out proteins. In other cases, there may be multiple uses for a substrate and depletion, by one enzyme, may be detrimental to the working of a cell. In some cases, such as the digestion of food, the enzyme needs to be functional in the gut but not in the cell. Thus, several types of regulations have evolved that the cell can use to control enzyme rate. Control by Enzyme Concentration A common way of regulating enzyme activity is by increasing or decreasing the amount of enzyme by regulation of the rates of synthesis in the cell. If you recall, the rate of reaction is proportional to the concentration of the enzyme-substrate complex ([ES]). The concentration of this complex can be increased in two ways: i) either by increasing [S], which you explored on the previous page, or ii) by increasing the total amount of enzyme in the cell. Control by Temperature One mechanism to control the rate of product formation is through temperature. Velocity of product formation increases linearly as the temperature increases until a critical temperature is reached as indicated in the following graph. Velocity of Product formation versus temperature. Product formation ceases beyond the critical point due to two effects of temperature. One effect is to decrease the non-covalent interactions between enzyme and substrate. Remember that ionic and hydrogen bonds are weak non-covalent bonds representing 5 Kcal/mole each.only 5 kcal/mol in strength. When the temperature increase matches the energy of the bond, the energy cn be used to break the bond. Thus if the enzyme cannot bind the substrate, no product is formed. The second effect of temperature is to cause proteins to denature (unfold). Denaturation means that the protein loses the secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure required for function. As discussed earlier, the protein tertiary structure is stabilized by non-covalent bonding. As with substrate binding, increased temperature can provide the energy necessary to break the weak non-covalent bonds. In some cases, the beaking of a single hydrogen bond can alter the structure of the enzyme sufficiently to cause the loss of function (i.e. loss of the ability to bind substrate, to recognize the substrate or to catalyze product formation). Control by pH The pH of the environment a protein finds itself in can drastically affect the proteins function and denaturation state. Have you ever put lemon and cream into hot tea at the same time? The cream curdles because the low pH of the lemon juice causes the proteins to denature. pH also affects the ability of a protein to bind to its ligand. At low pH hydrogen bond acceptors such as carboxyl groups become protonated. If they are protonated then they cannot form the critical ionic bonds between the protein and the ligand. The graph below shows the activity of a typical protein as a function of pH. This protein is most active around neutral pH. The cell can use pH as a mechanism to control enzyme action. Enzymes used in digestion that destroy other proteins could be detrimental to a cell. However, typically these enzymes are only active at low pH such as is found in the stomach or in intracellular compartments such as the lysosome that is maintained at lower pH than the cytoplasm. In vivo Control - Competitive and Non-competitive Inhibition Temperature and pH represent environmental means of regulating the velocity of an enzyme catalyzed reaction. However, in a typical organism (in vivo) the temperature and pH are usually regulated and therefore cannot be used to control enzyme activity. Consequently, the velocity of enzymatic reactions are usually regulated by molecular interaction of a second molecule with the enzyme. These are generally termed inhibitors if the binding of the second molecules causes a loss of enzyme activity (reduced velocity at any given substrate concentration). In competitive inhibition the second molecule binds in the active site thus preventing the substrate from binding. The regulatory molecule competes with the substrate for the active site. This decreases the rate at which the enzyme can convert the substrate to product because the enzyme spends part of the time unable to bind the substrate. This can be seen in the graph below plotted as the dashed red line. The occupancy of the binding pocket is in equilibrium between the binding of the substrate or the inhibitor. As you can see from the curve the maximum velocity is unchanged, but the substrate concentration required to reach maximum velocity is increased. Non-competitive inhibition involves a second small molecule binding to the enzyme. In this case there are two binding sites: one for the substrate and a distinct one for the inhibitor. When the inhibitor binds to the enzyme, the substrate binding pocket changes such that the substrate is no longer able to bind. It may also be possible for both the substrate and inhibitor to bind the enzyme at the same time but the enzyme is unable to complete the conversion of substrate to product. Non-competitive inhibition results in a lower maximum velocity for the enzyme when the inhibitor is present as can be seen in the green curve. Inihibitors of this type are often referred to as allosteric inhibitors because they cause the shape (steric) of the enzyme to assume a different (allo) form. Graded Quiz A common way of regulating enzyme activity is by increasing or decreasing the amount of enzyme by regulation of the rates of synthesis in the cell. If you recall, the rate of reaction is proportional to the concentration of the enzyme-substrate complex ([ES]). The concentration of this complex can be increased in two ways: i) either by increasing [S], which you explored on the previous page, or ii) by increasing the total amount of enzyme in the cell. One mechanism to control the rate of product formation is through temperature. Velocity of product formation increases linearly as the temperature increases until a critical temperature is reached as indicated in the following graph. Velocity of Product formation versus temperature. Product formation ceases beyond the critical point due to two effects of temperature. One effect is to decrease the non-covalent interactions between enzyme and substrate. Remember that ionic and hydrogen bonds are weak non-covalent bonds representing 5 Kcal/mole each.only 5 kcal/mol in strength. When the temperature increase matches the energy of the bond, the energy cn be used to break the bond. Thus if the enzyme cannot bind the substrate, no product is formed. The second effect of temperature is to cause proteins to denature (unfold). Denaturation means that the protein loses the secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure required for function. As discussed earlier, the protein tertiary structure is stabilized by non-covalent bonding. As with substrate binding, increased temperature can provide the energy necessary to break the weak non-covalent bonds. In some cases, the beaking of a single hydrogen bond can alter the structure of the enzyme sufficiently to cause the loss of function (i.e. loss of the ability to bind substrate, to recognize the substrate or to catalyze product formation). The pH of the environment a protein finds itself in can drastically affect the proteins function and denaturation state. Have you ever put lemon and cream into hot tea at the same time? The cream curdles because the low pH of the lemon juice causes the proteins to denature. pH also affects the ability of a protein to bind to its ligand. At low pH hydrogen bond acceptors such as carboxyl groups become protonated. If they are protonated then they cannot form the critical ionic bonds between the protein and the ligand. The graph below shows the activity of a typical protein as a function of pH. This protein is most active around neutral pH. The cell can use pH as a mechanism to control enzyme action. Enzymes used in digestion that destroy other proteins could be detrimental to a cell. However, typically these enzymes are only active at low pH such as is found in the stomach or in intracellular compartments such as the lysosome that is maintained at lower pH than the cytoplasm. Temperature and pH represent environmental means of regulating the velocity of an enzyme catalyzed reaction. However, in a typical organism (in vivo) the temperature and pH are usually regulated and therefore cannot be used to control enzyme activity. Consequently, the velocity of enzymatic reactions are usually regulated by molecular interaction of a second molecule with the enzyme. These are generally termed inhibitors if the binding of the second molecules causes a loss of enzyme activity (reduced velocity at any given substrate concentration). In competitive inhibition the second molecule binds in the active site thus preventing the substrate from binding. The regulatory molecule competes with the substrate for the active site. This decreases the rate at which the enzyme can convert the substrate to product because the enzyme spends part of the time unable to bind the substrate. This can be seen in the graph below plotted as the dashed red line. The occupancy of the binding pocket is in equilibrium between the binding of the substrate or the inhibitor. As you can see from the curve the maximum velocity is unchanged, but the substrate concentration required to reach maximum velocity is increased. Non-competitive inhibition involves a second small molecule binding to the enzyme. In this case there are two binding sites: one for the substrate and a distinct one for the inhibitor. When the inhibitor binds to the enzyme, the substrate binding pocket changes such that the substrate is no longer able to bind. It may also be possible for both the substrate and inhibitor to bind the enzyme at the same time but the enzyme is unable to complete the conversion of substrate to product. Non-competitive inhibition results in a lower maximum velocity for the enzyme when the inhibitor is present as can be seen in the green curve. Inihibitors of this type are often referred to as allosteric inhibitors because they cause the shape (steric) of the enzyme to assume a different (allo) form.   Enzyme Inhibition Inhibition Upon completion of this topic, students will be able to: Describe how temperature affects enzyme kinetics. Describe how pH affects enzyme kinetics. Explain, and graphically illustrate, the effect of each inhibitor type on a velocity vs. substrate concentration graph: a) non-competitive and b) competitive. Left alone, enzymes would deplete a cell of all the substrates. In some cases, this may be desirable, such as enzymes that degrade old, worn-out proteins. In other cases, there may be multiple uses for a substrate and depletion, by one enzyme, may be detrimental to the working of a cell. In some cases, such as the digestion of food, the enzyme needs to be functional in the gut but not in the cell. Thus, several types of regulations have evolved that the cell can use to control enzyme rate. Control by Enzyme Concentration A common way of regulating enzyme activity is by increasing or decreasing the amount of enzyme by regulation of the rates of synthesis in the cell. If you recall, the rate of reaction is proportional to the concentration of the enzyme-substrate complex ([ES]). The concentration of this complex can be increased in two ways: i) either by increasing [S], which you explored on the previous page, or ii) by increasing the total amount of enzyme in the cell. Control by Temperature One mechanism to control the rate of product formation is through temperature. Velocity of product formation increases linearly as the temperature increases until a critical temperature is reached as indicated in the following graph. Velocity of Product formation versus temperature. Product formation ceases beyond the critical point due to two effects of temperature. One effect is to decrease the non-covalent interactions between enzyme and substrate. Remember that ionic and hydrogen bonds are weak non-covalent bonds representing 5 Kcal/mole each.only 5 kcal/mol in strength. When the temperature increase matches the energy of the bond, the energy cn be used to break the bond. Thus if the enzyme cannot bind the substrate, no product is formed. The second effect of temperature is to cause proteins to denature (unfold). Denaturation means that the protein loses the secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure required for function. As discussed earlier, the protein tertiary structure is stabilized by non-covalent bonding. As with substrate binding, increased temperature can provide the energy necessary to break the weak non-covalent bonds. In some cases, the beaking of a single hydrogen bond can alter the structure of the enzyme sufficiently to cause the loss of function (i.e. loss of the ability to bind substrate, to recognize the substrate or to catalyze product formation). Control by pH The pH of the environment a protein finds itself in can drastically affect the proteins function and denaturation state. Have you ever put lemon and cream into hot tea at the same time? The cream curdles because the low pH of the lemon juice causes the proteins to denature. pH also affects the ability of a protein to bind to its ligand. At low pH hydrogen bond acceptors such as carboxyl groups become protonated. If they are protonated then they cannot form the critical ionic bonds between the protein and the ligand. The graph below shows the activity of a typical protein as a function of pH. This protein is most active around neutral pH. The cell can use pH as a mechanism to control enzyme action. Enzymes used in digestion that destroy other proteins could be detrimental to a cell. However, typically these enzymes are only active at low pH such as is found in the stomach or in intracellular compartments such as the lysosome that is maintained at lower pH than the cytoplasm. In vivo Control - Competitive and Non-competitive Inhibition Temperature and pH represent environmental means of regulating the velocity of an enzyme catalyzed reaction. However, in a typical organism (in vivo) the temperature and pH are usually regulated and therefore cannot be used to control enzyme activity. Consequently, the velocity of enzymatic reactions are usually regulated by molecular interaction of a second molecule with the enzyme. These are generally termed inhibitors if the binding of the second molecules causes a loss of enzyme activity (reduced velocity at any given substrate concentration). In competitive inhibition the second molecule binds in the active site thus preventing the substrate from binding. The regulatory molecule competes with the substrate for the active site. This decreases the rate at which the enzyme can convert the substrate to product because the enzyme spends part of the time unable to bind the substrate. This can be seen in the graph below plotted as the dashed red line. The occupancy of the binding pocket is in equilibrium between the binding of the substrate or the inhibitor. As you can see from the curve the maximum velocity is unchanged, but the substrate concentration required to reach maximum velocity is increased. Non-competitive inhibition involves a second small molecule binding to the enzyme. In this case there are two binding sites: one for the substrate and a distinct one for the inhibitor. When the inhibitor binds to the enzyme, the substrate binding pocket changes such that the substrate is no longer able to bind. It may also be possible for both the substrate and inhibitor to bind the enzyme at the same time but the enzyme is unable to complete the conversion of substrate to product. Non-competitive inhibition results in a lower maximum velocity for the enzyme when the inhibitor is present as can be seen in the green curve. Inihibitors of this type are often referred to as allosteric inhibitors because they cause the shape (steric) of the enzyme to assume a different (allo) form. A common way of regulating enzyme activity is by increasing or decreasing the amount of enzyme by regulation of the rates of synthesis in the cell. If you recall, the rate of reaction is proportional to the concentration of the enzyme-substrate complex ([ES]). The concentration of this complex can be increased in two ways: i) either by increasing [S], which you explored on the previous page, or ii) by increasing the total amount of enzyme in the cell. One mechanism to control the rate of product formation is through temperature. Velocity of product formation increases linearly as the temperature increases until a critical temperature is reached as indicated in the following graph. Velocity of Product formation versus temperature. Product formation ceases beyond the critical point due to two effects of temperature. One effect is to decrease the non-covalent interactions between enzyme and substrate. Remember that ionic and hydrogen bonds are weak non-covalent bonds representing 5 Kcal/mole each.only 5 kcal/mol in strength. When the temperature increase matches the energy of the bond, the energy cn be used to break the bond. Thus if the enzyme cannot bind the substrate, no product is formed. The second effect of temperature is to cause proteins to denature (unfold). Denaturation means that the protein loses the secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure required for function. As discussed earlier, the protein tertiary structure is stabilized by non-covalent bonding. As with substrate binding, increased temperature can provide the energy necessary to break the weak non-covalent bonds. In some cases, the beaking of a single hydrogen bond can alter the structure of the enzyme sufficiently to cause the loss of function (i.e. loss of the ability to bind substrate, to recognize the substrate or to catalyze product formation). The pH of the environment a protein finds itself in can drastically affect the proteins function and denaturation state. Have you ever put lemon and cream into hot tea at the same time? The cream curdles because the low pH of the lemon juice causes the proteins to denature. pH also affects the ability of a protein to bind to its ligand. At low pH hydrogen bond acceptors such as carboxyl groups become protonated. If they are protonated then they cannot form the critical ionic bonds between the protein and the ligand. The graph below shows the activity of a typical protein as a function of pH. This protein is most active around neutral pH. The cell can use pH as a mechanism to control enzyme action. Enzymes used in digestion that destroy other proteins could be detrimental to a cell. However, typically these enzymes are only active at low pH such as is found in the stomach or in intracellular compartments such as the lysosome that is maintained at lower pH than the cytoplasm. Temperature and pH represent environmental means of regulating the velocity of an enzyme catalyzed reaction. However, in a typical organism (in vivo) the temperature and pH are usually regulated and therefore cannot be used to control enzyme activity. Consequently, the velocity of enzymatic reactions are usually regulated by molecular interaction of a second molecule with the enzyme. These are generally termed inhibitors if the binding of the second molecules causes a loss of enzyme activity (reduced velocity at any given substrate concentration). In competitive inhibition the second molecule binds in the active site thus preventing the substrate from binding. The regulatory molecule competes with the substrate for the active site. This decreases the rate at which the enzyme can convert the substrate to product because the enzyme spends part of the time unable to bind the substrate. This can be seen in the graph below plotted as the dashed red line. The occupancy of the binding pocket is in equilibrium between the binding of the substrate or the inhibitor. As you can see from the curve the maximum velocity is unchanged, but the substrate concentration required to reach maximum velocity is increased. Non-competitive inhibition involves a second small molecule binding to the enzyme. In this case there are two binding sites: one for the substrate and a distinct one for the inhibitor. When the inhibitor binds to the enzyme, the substrate binding pocket changes such that the substrate is no longer able to bind. It may also be possible for both the substrate and inhibitor to bind the enzyme at the same time but the enzyme is unable to complete the conversion of substrate to product. Non-competitive inhibition results in a lower maximum velocity for the enzyme when the inhibitor is present as can be seen in the green curve. Inihibitors of this type are often referred to as allosteric inhibitors because they cause the shape (steric) of the enzyme to assume a different (allo) form.   Regulation By the end of this module, students should be able to: Describe the major differences between a competitive and uncompetitive inhibitor. Explain activation of enzymes by allosteric compounds as a method of regulation. Distinguish regulation by non-covalent and covalent modification of enzymes. It is essential that biochemical pathways are regulated, otherwise the cell would waste resources. Some general properties associated with the regulation of metabolic pathways are listed below At least one step is regulated, often in multiple ways. Essentially irreversible steps, i.e. those with large energy changes, are regulated. Consequently, once the pathway is turned on, metabolites that enter the pathway are committed to complete the pathway. In synthetic and degradative pathways a common step is performed by different enzymes, each of which are regulated in a coordinated fashion such that only one pathway is on at a time. There are five general methods by which the flux through a step in the pathway can be regulated. These methods differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of these methods is discussed below, with the more rapid form of regulation at the top of the list. Substrate availability. For many enzymes, the intracellular level of substrate is below the level that half saturates the enzyme. Therefore, if the substrate concentration increases the rate of the reaction will increase due to the formation of additional enzyme-substrate complexes. If the substrate concentration is very low, the increase in the rate of the reaction is almost equal to the increase in substrate concentration. Product inhibition. In this case the product of the reaction inhibits the enzyme that generated it, preventing the accumulation of intermediates in a pathway. The product is a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme that just created it. How do product (competitive) inhibitors actually inhibit the reaction of the substrate with its enzyme? Complete the following Activity and then enter you answer on the My Response box below it. Feedback inhibitors.In this case, a compound that is further down the pathway, or even a compound in a separate pathway, will inhibit a reaction. Again, this prevents an accumulation of intermediates in a pathway. The binding of the feedback inhibitor usually causes a change in the shape of the enzyme; a feedback inhibitor is an example of a non-competitive inhibitor or an allosteric inhibitor. Allosteric Pathway Allosteric Binding Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme. How do allosteric regulators differ from feedback inhibitors? Use the following activity to explore this difference. Allosteric Binding Allosteric Activation and Inhibition. Enzyme phosphorylation. The addition of phosphate groups to serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues on enzymes can cause a change in the shape of the active site of the enzyme. This change in shape is an allosteric effect. The change may lead to a more active enzyme (allosteric activator) or a less active enzyme (an allosteric inhibitor). Enzyme levels. Recall that the rate of product formation is proportional to the amount of enzyme. Enzyme levels can be increased by the conversion of inactive forms of the enzyme to active forms. This form of regulation occurs with digestive enzymes. These are made in an inactive form in the pancreas, but activated by cleavage in the small intestine. The levels of enzyme can also be varied by regulating the synthesis of the enzyme. This method of regulation is common during development, when certain enzymes are only present during defined developmental stages. The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once.   Regulation By the end of this module, students should be able to: Describe the major differences between a competitive and uncompetitive inhibitor. Explain activation of enzymes by allosteric compounds as a method of regulation. Distinguish regulation by non-covalent and covalent modification of enzymes. It is essential that biochemical pathways are regulated, otherwise the cell would waste resources. Some general properties associated with the regulation of metabolic pathways are listed below At least one step is regulated, often in multiple ways. Essentially irreversible steps, i.e. those with large energy changes, are regulated. Consequently, once the pathway is turned on, metabolites that enter the pathway are committed to complete the pathway. In synthetic and degradative pathways a common step is performed by different enzymes, each of which are regulated in a coordinated fashion such that only one pathway is on at a time. There are five general methods by which the flux through a step in the pathway can be regulated. These methods differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of these methods is discussed below, with the more rapid form of regulation at the top of the list. Substrate availability. For many enzymes, the intracellular level of substrate is below the level that half saturates the enzyme. Therefore, if the substrate concentration increases the rate of the reaction will increase due to the formation of additional enzyme-substrate complexes. If the substrate concentration is very low, the increase in the rate of the reaction is almost equal to the increase in substrate concentration. Product inhibition. In this case the product of the reaction inhibits the enzyme that generated it, preventing the accumulation of intermediates in a pathway. The product is a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme that just created it. How do product (competitive) inhibitors actually inhibit the reaction of the substrate with its enzyme? Complete the following Activity and then enter you answer on the My Response box below it. Biochem version new modern bio version version old version Feedback inhibitors.In this case, a compound that is further down the pathway, or even a compound in a separate pathway, will inhibit a reaction. Again, this prevents an accumulation of intermediates in a pathway. The binding of the feedback inhibitor usually causes a change in the shape of the enzyme; a feedback inhibitor is an example of a non-competitive inhibitor or an allosteric inhibitor. Allosteric Pathway Allosteric Binding Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme. How do allosteric regulators differ from feedback inhibitors? Use the following activity to explore this difference. Allosteric Binding Allosteric Activation and Inhibition. Enzyme phosphorylation. The addition of phosphate groups to serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues on enzymes can cause a change in the shape of the active site of the enzyme. This change in shape is an allosteric effect. The change may lead to a more active enzyme (allosteric activator) or a less active enzyme (an allosteric inhibitor). Enzyme levels. Recall that the rate of product formation is proportional to the amount of enzyme. Enzyme levels can be increased by the conversion of inactive forms of the enzyme to active forms. This form of regulation occurs with digestive enzymes. These are made in an inactive form in the pancreas, but activated by cleavage in the small intestine. The levels of enzyme can also be varied by regulating the synthesis of the enzyme. This method of regulation is common during development, when certain enzymes are only present during defined developmental stages.   Regulation By the end of this module, students should be able to: Understand the major differences between a competitive and uncompetitive inhibitor. Understand activation of enzymes by allosteric compounds as a method of regulation. Understand regulation by non-covalent and covalent modification of enzymes. It is essential that biochemical pathways are regulated, otherwise the cell would waste resources. Some general properties associated with the regulation of metabolic pathways are listed below At least one step is regulated, often in multiple ways. Essentially irreversible steps, i.e. those with large energy changes, are regulated. Consequently, once the pathway is turned on, metabolites that enter the pathway are committed to complete the pathway. In synthetic and degradative pathways a common step is performed by different enzymes, each of which are regulated in a coordinated fashion such that only one pathway is on at a time. There are five general methods by which the flux through a step in the pathway can be regulated. These methods differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of these methods is discussed below, with the more rapid form of regulation at the top of the list. Substrate availability. For many enzymes, the intracellular level of substrate is below the level that half saturates the enzyme. Therefore, if the substrate concentration increases the rate of the reaction will increase due to the formation of additional enzyme-substrate complexes. If the substrate concentration is very low, the increase in the rate of the reaction is almost equal to the increase in substrate concentration. Product inhibition. In this case the product of the reaction inhibits the enzyme that generated it, preventing the accumulation of intermediates in a pathway. The product is a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme that just created it. How do inhibitors actually inhibit the reaction of the substrate with it's enzyme? Complete the following Learn by Doing and then enter you answer on the My Response page below it. Regulating with inhibition. Feedback inhibitors.In this case, a compound that is further down the pathway, or even a compound in a separate pathway, will inhibit a reaction. Again, this prevents an accumulation of intermediates in a pathway. The binding of the feedback inhibitor usually causes a change in the shape of the enzyme; a feedback inhibitor is an example of a non-competitive inhibitor or an allosteric inhibitor. Allosteric Pathway Allosteric Activation and Inhibition. Enzyme phosphorylation. The addition of phosphate groups to serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues on enzymes can cause a change in the shape of the active site of the enzyme. This change in shape is an allosteric effect. The change may lead to a more active enzyme (allosteric activator) or a less active enzyme (an allosteric inhibitor). Enzyme levels. Recall that the rate of product formation is proportional to the amount of enzyme. Enzyme levels can be increased by the conversion of inactive forms of the enzyme to active forms. This form of regulation occurs with digestive enzymes. These are made in an inactive form in the pancreas, but activated by cleavage in the small intestine. The levels of enzyme can also be varied by regulating the synthesis of the enzyme. This method of regulation is common during development, when certain enzymes are only present during defined developmental stages. Before beginning the graded quiz below, provide the following response to the learning objectives for this topic.   Regulation By the end of this module, students should be able to: Understand the major differences between a competitive and uncompetitive inhibitor. Understand activation of enzymes by allosteric compounds as a method of regulation. Understand regulation by non-covalent and covalent modification of enzymes. It is essential that biochemical pathways are regulated, otherwise the cell would waste resources. Some general properties associated with the regulation of metabolic pathways are listed below At least one step is regulated, often in multiple ways. Essentially irreversible steps, i.e. those with large energy changes, are regulated. Consequently, once the pathway is turned on, metabolites that enter the pathway are committed to complete the pathway. In synthetic and degradative pathways a common step is performed by different enzymes, each of which are regulated in a coordinated fashion such that only one pathway is on at a time. There are five general methods by which the flux through a step in the pathway can be regulated. These methods differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of these methods is discussed below, with the more rapid form of regulation at the top of the list. Substrate availability. For many enzymes, the intracellular level of substrate is below the level that half saturates the enzyme. Therefore, if the substrate concentration increases the rate of the reaction will increase due to the formation of additional enzyme-substrate complexes. If the substrate concentration is very low, the increase in the rate of the reaction is almost equal to the increase in substrate concentration. Product inhibition. In this case the product of the reaction inhibits the enzyme that generated it, preventing the accumulation of intermediates in a pathway. The product is a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme that just created it. How do inhibitors actually inhibit the reaction of the substrate with it's enzyme? Complete the following Learn by Doing and then enter you answer on the My Response page below it. Regulating with inhibition. Feedback inhibitors.In this case, a compound that is further down the pathway, or even a compound in a separate pathway, will inhibit a reaction. Again, this prevents an accumulation of intermediates in a pathway. The binding of the feedback inhibitor usually causes a change in the shape of the enzyme; a feedback inhibitor is an example of a non-competitive inhibitor or an allosteric inhibitor. Allosteric Pathway Allosteric Activation and Inhibition. Enzyme phosphorylation. The addition of phosphate groups to serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues on enzymes can cause a change in the shape of the active site of the enzyme. This change in shape is an allosteric effect. The change may lead to a more active enzyme (allosteric activator) or a less active enzyme (an allosteric inhibitor). Enzyme levels. Recall that the rate of product formation is proportional to the amount of enzyme. Enzyme levels can be increased by the conversion of inactive forms of the enzyme to active forms. This form of regulation occurs with digestive enzymes. These are made in an inactive form in the pancreas, but activated by cleavage in the small intestine. The levels of enzyme can also be varied by regulating the synthesis of the enzyme. This method of regulation is common during development, when certain enzymes are only present during defined developmental stages. Before beginning the graded quiz below, provide the following response to the learning objectives for this topic.   Enzyme Nomenclature By the end of this module, students should be able to: Explain the difference between a kinase and a phosphatase Describe the reactions catalyzed by dehydrogenases, hydratases, isomerases, and synthetases. There are thousands of different enzymes in any cell. Most enzymes bind a specific substrate, perform a simple chemical change on that substrate, and then release a product. Each enzyme has a unique name. Usually, the name of an enzymes is systematic, but many exceptions exist. Almost all enzyme names have the suffix ase, indicating that they are an enzyme, for example kinase, lyase, phosphatase, etc. Usually, but unfortunately not always, the name of the enzyme is derived from the nature of the chemical change that it catalyzes. For example, an enzyme that oxidizes its substrate is referred to as a dehydrogenase because it removes hydrogens atoms during the oxidation process. To further clarify the name of the enzyme, the name of the substrate or product is often included in the name. For example, the enzyme that oxidizes succinate is called succinate dehydrogenase. Keep in mind that most reactions in pathways are reversible, so the name may describe the reverse reaction. Lastly, in cases when enzymes bind more than one substrate, the name can also suggest the co-substrate. For examples, dehydrogenases will use NAD+ or FAD as co-substrates. Important Classes of enzymes Although there is a large number of enzyme catalyzed reactions in a cell, the following list describes most of the activities that are found in metabolic pathways. Kinase. A kinase transfers a phosphate group from ATP to the substrate. Kinases are used when direct coupling is required to reduce the Gibbs free energy of the reaction. Phosphorylation of glucose by glucose kinase. Note that the source of phosphate is ATP, not inorganic phosphate. Alternatively, a kinase may be involved in regulation of enzymes by transferring a phosphate from ATP to a Serine, Threonine, or Tyrosine on the enzyme that is being regulated. The phosphorylated form of the enzyme may be active or inactive. A protein kinase phosphorylates an enzyme, causing it to change its state from active to inactive or from inactive to active. Phosphatase. A phosphatase removes a phosphate group by a hydrolysis reaction, producing inorganic phosphate. ADP or ATP are not involved in the reaction. A phosphatase uses water to remove a phosphate group from its substrate. Phosphatases can act on small molecules, as shown above, or on phosphorylated proteins. Dehydrogenase. As the name suggests, enzymes of this group transfer hydrogen atoms from the substrate to an electron acceptor, such as NAD+ or FAD . Therefore they are redox enzymes since removal of hydrogen atoms is the equivalent to removal of electrons. The name is applied to both oxidation and reduction reactions. Succinate dehydrogenase, an example from the citric acid (TCA) cycle, is shown. FAD is the obligatory co-substrate, accepting electrons in this case. Note that this enzyme could also have been called fumarate dehydrogenase. Isomerase. This class of enzymes rearrange functional groups on their substrates, releasing a product that has the same number of atoms as the substrate, but is an isomer of the original substrate. Unfortunately, the descriptive word "isomerase" is often omitted from their name. Aconitase is an isomerase that functions in the citric acid cycle to convert citrate to isocitrate. Note that the composition of both substrate and product are the same, but the chemical structure is not. Hydratase. This reaction type, which has a number of idiosyncratic names in different pathways, adds water to a double bond. The addition of water to a double bond to produce an alcohol. Synthetase. These enzyme are responsible for the synthesis of more complex molecules from simpler substrates. For example, ATP synthase generates ATP from ADP and inorganic phosphate, a process that is driven by a proton gradient across a membrane. Citrate synthase catalyzes the following reaction, which is the first in the citric acid (TCA) cycle. Citrate synthase combines acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetate to form citrate. The source of energy in this case is the high energy thio-ester in acetyl-CoA. Although there is a large number of enzyme catalyzed reactions in a cell, the following list describes most of the activities that are found in metabolic pathways. Kinase. A kinase transfers a phosphate group from ATP to the substrate. Kinases are used when direct coupling is required to reduce the Gibbs free energy of the reaction. Phosphorylation of glucose by glucose kinase. Note that the source of phosphate is ATP, not inorganic phosphate. Alternatively, a kinase may be involved in regulation of enzymes by transferring a phosphate from ATP to a Serine, Threonine, or Tyrosine on the enzyme that is being regulated. The phosphorylated form of the enzyme may be active or inactive. A protein kinase phosphorylates an enzyme, causing it to change its state from active to inactive or from inactive to active. Phosphatase. A phosphatase removes a phosphate group by a hydrolysis reaction, producing inorganic phosphate. ADP or ATP are not involved in the reaction. A phosphatase uses water to remove a phosphate group from its substrate. Phosphatases can act on small molecules, as shown above, or on phosphorylated proteins. Dehydrogenase. As the name suggests, enzymes of this group transfer hydrogen atoms from the substrate to an electron acceptor, such as NAD+ or FAD . Therefore they are redox enzymes since removal of hydrogen atoms is the equivalent to removal of electrons. The name is applied to both oxidation and reduction reactions. Succinate dehydrogenase, an example from the citric acid (TCA) cycle, is shown. FAD is the obligatory co-substrate, accepting electrons in this case. Note that this enzyme could also have been called fumarate dehydrogenase. Isomerase. This class of enzymes rearrange functional groups on their substrates, releasing a product that has the same number of atoms as the substrate, but is an isomer of the original substrate. Unfortunately, the descriptive word "isomerase" is often omitted from their name. Aconitase is an isomerase that functions in the citric acid cycle to convert citrate to isocitrate. Note that the composition of both substrate and product are the same, but the chemical structure is not. Hydratase. This reaction type, which has a number of idiosyncratic names in different pathways, adds water to a double bond. The addition of water to a double bond to produce an alcohol. Synthetase. These enzyme are responsible for the synthesis of more complex molecules from simpler substrates. For example, ATP synthase generates ATP from ADP and inorganic phosphate, a process that is driven by a proton gradient across a membrane. Citrate synthase catalyzes the following reaction, which is the first in the citric acid (TCA) cycle. Citrate synthase combines acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetate to form citrate. The source of energy in this case is the high energy thio-ester in acetyl-CoA.   Enzymes Enzymes are proteins that have the ability to bind substrate in their active site and then chemically modify the bound substrate, converting it to a different molecule — the product of the reaction. Substrates bind to enzymes just like ligands bind to proteins. However, when substrates bind to enzymes, they undergo an enzyme-induced chemical change, and are converted to products. The substrate binds to the enzyme by interacting with amino acids in the binding site. The binding site on enzymes is often referred to as the active site because it contains amino acids that both bind the substrate and aid in its conversion to product. Compare the protein-ligand interaction to the enzyme-substrate interaction. Notice that both binding proteins and enzymes have binding sites for their ligands (L) and substrates (S), respectively. This area of the enzyme is called the active site because it also contains amino acids that are important for the conversion of substrate to product. You can often recognize that a protein is an enzyme by its name. Many enzyme names end with “-ase.” For example, the enzyme lactase is used to break down the sugar lactose, found in mammalian milk. Other enzymes are known by a common name, such as pepsin, which is an enzyme that aids in the digestion of proteins in your stomach by breaking the peptide bonds in the proteins. Enzymes are catalysts, meaning that they make a reaction go faster, but the enzymes themselves are not altered by the overall reaction. Examine this image to see how enzymes work. Simplified enzymatic reaction. The substrate reversibly binds to the active site of the enzyme, forming the enzyme-substrate (ES) complex. The bound substrate is converted to product by catalytic groups in the active site, forming the enzyme-product complex (EP). The bound products are released, returning the enzyme to its unbound form, ready to catalyze another round of converting substrate to product. The amino acids in the active site of enzymes play two roles, and sometimes those roles overlap. Some of the amino acids in the active site are responsible for binding of the substrate and others are responsible for facilitating the chemical reaction. Enzymes are generally quite specific for their substrates. Although lactase and pepsin both catalyze the same type of reaction, breaking a bond using water (hydrolysis: "hydro" means "water" and "lysis" means "to break"), lactase only functions when lactose is its substrate and pepsin can only break peptide bonds.   Enzymes Enzymes are proteins that have the ability to bind substrate in their active site and then chemically modify the bound substrate, converting it to a different molecule — the product of the reaction. Substrates bind to enzymes just like ligands bind to proteins. However, when substrates bind to enzymes, they undergo an enzyme-induced chemical change, and are converted to products. The substrate binds to the enzyme by interacting with amino acids in the binding site. The binding site on enzymes is often referred to as the active site because it contains amino acids that both bind the substrate and aid in its conversion to product. Compare the protein-ligand interaction to the enzyme-substrate interaction. Notice that both binding proteins and enzymes have binding sites for their ligands (L) and substrates (S), respectively. This area of the enzyme is called the active site because it also contains amino acids that are important for the conversion of substrate to product. You can often recognize that a protein is an enzyme by its name. Many enzyme names end with “-ase.” For example, the enzyme lactase is used to break down the sugar lactose, found in mammalian milk. Other enzymes are known by a common name, such as pepsin, which is an enzyme that aids in the digestion of proteins in your stomach by breaking the peptide bonds in the proteins. Enzymes are catalysts, meaning that they make a reaction go faster, but the enzymes themselves are not altered by the overall reaction. Examine this image to see how enzymes work. Simplified enzymatic reaction. The substrate reversibly binds to the active site of the enzyme, forming the enzyme-substrate (ES) complex. The bound substrate is converted to product by catalytic groups in the active site, forming the enzyme-product complex (EP). The bound products are released, returning the enzyme to its unbound form, ready to catalyze another round of converting substrate to product. The amino acids in the active site of enzymes play two roles, and sometimes those roles overlap. Some of the amino acids in the active site are responsible for binding of the substrate and others are responsible for facilitating the chemical reaction. Enzymes are generally quite specific for their substrates. Although lactase and pepsin both catalyze the same type of reaction, breaking a bond using water (hydrolysis: "hydro" means "water" and "lysis" means "to break"), lactase only functions when lactose is its substrate and pepsin can only break peptide bonds. The process in which an enzyme can facilitate a chemical reaction is actually a series of steps termed the catalytic cycle. This cycle is illustrated in the diagram above. Using what you have learned about enzymes match the letter with the correct molecule identification and match the numbers with the correct description of each step of the cycle. The process in which an enzyme can facilitate a chemical reaction is actually a series of steps termed the catalytic cycle. This cycle is illustrated in the diagram above. Using what you have learned about enzymes match the letter with the correct molecule identification and match the numbers with the correct description of each step of the cycle.   How Enzymes Work In all chemical reactions, there is an initial input of energy that is required before the reaction can occur. If this initial energy requirement (called the activation energy or energy barrier) is small, then the reaction will happen quickly and easily. If the activation energy is large, then the reaction will take longer to occur. Enzymes function to reduce the activation energy required for a chemical reaction to occur. First, the enzyme binds to the substrate and slightly distorts its shape. The change in shape activates the substrate molecule and decreases the total activation energy required for the substrate to be turned into product. As the number of activated substrate molecules increases, so does the conversion of substrate to product. An analogy for this effect is a ski hill, with skiers at the bottom of one side of the hill representing substrates, skiers on the top of the hill representing activated substrates, and the products being the number of skiers that ski down the other side. If the height of the hill is lowered (due to the presence of the enzyme), then more skiers can make it to the top, increasing the number that ski down to become products. A noncatalyzed reaction is shown on the left and an enzyme-catalyzed reaction is shown on the right. The enzyme reduces the energy barrier required to activate the substrate, allowing more substrates to become activated, which increases the rate of product formation. Note that the energy difference between the substrate and the product is not changed by the enzyme.   Influencing Enzyme Function The activity of an enzyme (its ability to convert substrate to product), depends on a number of parameters that are listed below. Many of these parameters can help control the activities of enzymes to optimize the utilization of cellular resources. Temperature: As the temperature increases, the kinetic energy of the substrate molecules increases, allowing more substrate molecules to become activated and increasing the reaction rate. This is equivalent to more skiers having the energy to surmount the activation energy and reach the top of the hill. Many enzymes have optimal activity at the temperature of the organism. However, there is a limit to how much you can increase the rate of the reaction by changing the temperature. If the temperature is too high, the enzyme unfolds, denatures, and becomes inactive. pH: Protein structure can be affected by the pH of the solution surrounding it. If a protein group that is important for substrate binding or catalysis can be protonated or deprotonated, then changing the pH is likely to affect the enzyme activity. Different enzymes are functional at different pH levels. Pepsin is a digestive enzyme secreted by the stomach lining that is activated by the low pH in the stomach. Salivary amylase, on the other hand, is denatured and nonfunctional in the stomach environment. Substrate concentration: As the substrate concentration increases, the number of substrate molecules that bind to the enzyme also increases. This leads to increased substrate activation. Presence of inhibitors: Inhibitors can reduce the activity of enzymes through two different mechanisms. Competitive inhibitors bind to the active site and prevent the substrate from attaching to the binding site. Since less substrate can bind to the enzyme, the activity is reduced. Noncompetitive inhibitors (also called mixed-type) do not bind to the active site, but bind elsewhere on the enzyme. However, the bound inhibitor changes the shape of the active site, reducing the activity of the enzyme. Drugs to treat disease often inhibit enzyme activity. For example, one of the drugs used to treat HIV is a competitive inhibitor of a specific viral enzyme, while another anti-HIV drug is a noncompetitive inhibitor of a different viral enzyme. Presence of activators: Activators, like noncompetitive inhibitors, also change the shape of the active site by binding elsewhere on the enzyme, but in this case the enzyme is converted from an inactive form to an active form. In this way, activators increase enzyme activity.   Influencing Enzyme Function The activity of an enzyme (its ability to convert substrate to product), depends on a number of parameters that are listed below. Many of these parameters can help control the activities of enzymes to optimize the utilization of cellular resources. Temperature: As the temperature increases, the kinetic energy of the substrate molecules increases, allowing more substrate molecules to become activated and increasing the reaction rate. This is equivalent to more skiers having the energy to surmount the activation energy and reach the top of the hill. Many enzymes have optimal activity at the temperature of the organism. However, there is a limit to how much you can increase the rate of the reaction by changing the temperature. If the temperature is too high, the enzyme unfolds, denatures, and becomes inactive. pH: Protein structure can be affected by the pH of the solution surrounding it. If a protein group that is important for substrate binding or catalysis can be protonated or deprotonated, then changing the pH is likely to affect the enzyme activity. Different enzymes are functional at different pH levels. Pepsin is a digestive enzyme secreted by the stomach lining that is activated by the low pH in the stomach. Salivary amylase, on the other hand, is denatured and nonfunctional in the stomach environment. Substrate concentration: As the substrate concentration increases, the number of substrate molecules that bind to the enzyme also increases. This leads to increased substrate activation. Presence of inhibitors: Inhibitors can reduce the activity of enzymes through two different mechanisms. Competitive inhibitors bind to the active site and prevent the substrate from attaching to the binding site. Since less substrate can bind to the enzyme, the activity is reduced. Noncompetitive inhibitors (also called mixed-type) do not bind to the active site, but bind elsewhere on the enzyme. However, the bound inhibitor changes the shape of the active site, reducing the activity of the enzyme. Drugs to treat disease often inhibit enzyme activity. For example, one of the drugs used to treat HIV is a competitive inhibitor of a specific viral enzyme, while another anti-HIV drug is a noncompetitive inhibitor of a different viral enzyme. Presence of activators: Activators, like noncompetitive inhibitors, also change the shape of the active site by binding elsewhere on the enzyme, but in this case the enzyme is converted from an inactive form to an active form. In this way, activators increase enzyme activity.   Enzyme Catalysis Catalysis Previously, you explored how proteins interact with their ligands, using the example of myoglobin and oxygen. Proteins are not only storage proteins, but can also act as hormone receptors as seen with the estrogen receptor and many serve as enzymes that catalyze processes in the cell. Catalyst A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. General Reaction Cells operate within the laws of chemistry and physics, and utilize only chemical reactions that occur naturally. Many of these reactions are extremely slow, requiring years to eons to complete. For example, your favorite book contains paper made of cellulose from trees. This paper will take decades to degrade in the environment and mammalian systems lack the enzyme that is specific to degrade cellulose, however, a bacteria found in the stomach of cows and other ruminants have the ability to digest cellulose and provide glucose to the cow. For a cow to survive it cannot wait decades to digest a meal of hay. To meet the speed of life, chemical reactions in cells are sped up by enzyme catalysts. Enzymes bind to substrates in a manner similar to the way myoglobin binds oxygen or the estradiol binds to the estrogen receptor, but enzymes can go one step further. In this case the ligand is specifically referred to as the substrate (the molecule that the enzyme will convert to product) and it binds to a specific binding region of the enzyme referred to as the active site. Once bound, the ligand, or substrate, can either simply reversibly come off the enzyme, or it can be converted into a new compound or product. The general form of the reaction is: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E Where E = enzyme, S = substrate, ES = the enzyme•substrate complex, and P = product. The square brackets around the ES complex indicate that the complex is inferred, because it is very unstable and generally not directly measurable. Catalysts Lower Activation Energy Enzymes and other catalysts lower the activation energy for converting a specific substrate to product, as shown in the graph below. The activation energy is the energy required for a chemical reaction to proceed to product. By lowering the activation energy, a chemical reaction can proceed much more quickly. Note that enzymes have no effect on the free energy of the reaction. Enzymes are not consumed in the process, but are recycled for further catalysis. Catalysts Lower Activation Energy This graph shows how enzymes catalyze reactions by lowering the activation energy. Without a catalyst, the amount of energy required for the reaction is large. By fixing a substrate in its active site, enzymes lower the activation energy, increasing the rate of the reaction. Cells operate within the laws of chemistry and physics, and utilize only chemical reactions that occur naturally. Many of these reactions are extremely slow, requiring years to eons to complete. For example, your favorite book contains paper made of cellulose from trees. This paper will take decades to degrade in the environment and mammalian systems lack the enzyme that is specific to degrade cellulose, however, a bacteria found in the stomach of cows and other ruminants have the ability to digest cellulose and provide glucose to the cow. For a cow to survive it cannot wait decades to digest a meal of hay. To meet the speed of life, chemical reactions in cells are sped up by enzyme catalysts. Enzymes bind to substrates in a manner similar to the way myoglobin binds oxygen or the estradiol binds to the estrogen receptor, but enzymes can go one step further. In this case the ligand is specifically referred to as the substrate (the molecule that the enzyme will convert to product) and it binds to a specific binding region of the enzyme referred to as the active site. Once bound, the ligand, or substrate, can either simply reversibly come off the enzyme, or it can be converted into a new compound or product. The general form of the reaction is: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E Where E = enzyme, S = substrate, ES = the enzyme•substrate complex, and P = product. The square brackets around the ES complex indicate that the complex is inferred, because it is very unstable and generally not directly measurable. Enzymes and other catalysts lower the activation energy for converting a specific substrate to product, as shown in the graph below. The activation energy is the energy required for a chemical reaction to proceed to product. By lowering the activation energy, a chemical reaction can proceed much more quickly. Note that enzymes have no effect on the free energy of the reaction. Enzymes are not consumed in the process, but are recycled for further catalysis. Catalysts Lower Activation Energy This graph shows how enzymes catalyze reactions by lowering the activation energy. Without a catalyst, the amount of energy required for the reaction is large. By fixing a substrate in its active site, enzymes lower the activation energy, increasing the rate of the reaction.   Mechanisms for Pathway Regulation Six general mechanisms can regulate the rate of each step in a pathway. The mechanisms differ in how rapidly they can respond to changes in the environment. Each of them is discussed below, with the more rapid forms of regulation at the top of the list. Substrate availability. If the substrate concentration increases, the rate of a reaction will increase. Put simply, substrates must collide with enzymes to initiate binding. Such collisions will occur more often if the substrate is highly concentrated. Note that too much of the substrate can saturate the enzyme, so above a certain amount of substrate, the reaction speed will not increase anymore. Competitive inhibition. An inhibitor “competes” with the substrate for the active site. If the inhibitor binds first, the substrate is blocked from entering and the enzyme is inhibited (cannot complete any reactions). Competitive inhibitors are often used as drugs to block an undesirable metabolic pathway. For example, sulfa antibiotics are competitive inhibitors of the bacterial pathway that produces folic acid, an essential molecule for nucleic acid synthesis. Products of a reaction are often competitive inhibitors, because they bind to the active site. Noncompetitive control. This mechanism is similar to competitive control, except in this case substances bind to a site away from the active site. Binding can either enhance or inhibit the enzyme’s function by changing the shape of the active site. This is the example that you saw above with glycolysis. Feedback inhibition. Both competitive and noncompetitive controls are often set up so that a product inhibits its own production by inhibiting enzymes at an early step in the synthesis process. This regulates the pathway: the product “turns off” its own production by inhibiting an enzyme on its own “assembly line.” This prevents the overproduction of a substance and also prevents the waste of resources on unnecessary intermediate products. Feedback inhibition is observed when a product inhibits an earlier step in the pathway. Product inhibition occurs when the product inhibits the enzyme that was directly involved in making that product. Modification of the enzyme. Chemical modification of enzymes (such as adding a phosphate group) can cause a change in the shape of the active site of the enzyme. The change may either increase or decrease enzyme activity. This is similar to noncompetitive control, except in this case the enzyme is chemically modified and control does not involve the binding of a large molecule to the enzyme. Changing enzyme concentrations. Enzyme levels can be increased by 1) conversion of inactive forms of the enzyme to active forms, or 2) regulating the synthesis of the enzyme. An example of the former is blood clotting, where inactive precursors of clotting enzymes become activated, in a cascade, by blood vessel damage. This permits a very quick response to bleeding: all the necessary factors are present and require only an activating signal. Similarly, many digestive enzymes are activated only when they reach their destination (for example, gastric fluid of low pH). Elsewhere they are inactive — and thus do not digest the organ that secretes them. It takes longer to adjust enzyme levels by regulating the activity of genes that produce them. Such changes are most often seen in response to longer-term changes in the environment. For example, bacteria turn genes for digestive enzymes on and off depending on the nutrients that are available to them. Many animal genes are produced only during certain stages of development. Pathways Consider the following pathway, where compound A is metabolized to compound C, and answer the following questions. In summary, metabolic pathways are dynamic processes, continuously changing in response to environmental changes and cellular (or organismal) needs, while avoiding waste of resources. How much substrate or enzyme is available will determine the rate of reactions. Moreover, extreme “fine-tuning” of metabolism is possible through changes in enzyme activity due to the binding of inhibitors. This is a prime example of the relationship between structure and function.   Summary of Pathway Regulation In summary, metabolic pathways are dynamic processes, continuously changing in response to environmental changes and cellular (or organismal) needs, while avoiding waste of resources. How much substrate or enzyme is available will determine the rate of reactions. Moreover, extreme “fine-tuning” of metabolism is possible through changes in enzyme activity due to the binding of inhibitors. This is a prime example of the relationship between structure and function. Underscoring the importance of metabolic regulation, in the next module you will learn about medical conditions caused by structural changes in enzymes that in turn affects the metabolic pathways they are involved.   Enzyme Catalysis 