6. [u'membrane', u'membranes', u'cell']
   Introduction to the Cell Membrane Be able to define the functions of each of the classes of lipids. Be able to explain how the different structural features of fatty acids influence their role in phospholipids and fats. Be able to define the amphipathic character of a phopspholipid and glycolipid. Be able to name and identify the ester bonds between fatty acids and glycerol and the glycerol and phosphate. Be able to describe and identify the difference between a liposome and a micelle. Be able to describe and diagram the characteristic features of the fluid mosaic membrane. Cell Membrane There are two basic parts of the cell membrane. First there is the plasma membrane that surrounds the cell and creates a barrier that separates the cell contents from the outside environment. The plasma membrane is selective allowing only specific molecules to cross. It selectively imports ions to control the water balance of the cell. The cell membrane also provides a mechanism for moving large molecules into and out of the cell. Second there is the endo-membrane system. This membrane runs through out the cell as part of the endoplasmic reticulum and the golgi complex. Here membrane proteins are inserted. The endo-membrane system also provides a mechanism to create mirco-environments in the cytoplasm by making vesicles. Many organisms including plants, fungi, and bacteria also have cell walls. While these are essential for the integrity of these cells, we will focus on the cell membrane. There are two basic parts of the cell membrane. First there is the plasma membrane that surrounds the cell and creates a barrier that separates the cell contents from the outside environment. The plasma membrane is selective allowing only specific molecules to cross. It selectively imports ions to control the water balance of the cell. The cell membrane also provides a mechanism for moving large molecules into and out of the cell. Second there is the endo-membrane system. This membrane runs through out the cell as part of the endoplasmic reticulum and the golgi complex. Here membrane proteins are inserted. The endo-membrane system also provides a mechanism to create mirco-environments in the cytoplasm by making vesicles. Many organisms including plants, fungi, and bacteria also have cell walls. While these are essential for the integrity of these cells, we will focus on the cell membrane.   Fluid Mosaic Model Upon completion of this module, students will be able to: Define the functions of each of the classes of lipids. Explain how the different structural features of fatty acids influence their role in phospholipids and fats. Define the amphipathic character of a phospholipid and glycolipid. Name and identify the ester bonds between fatty acids and glycerol and the glycerol and phosphate. Describe and identify the difference between a liposome and a micelle. Describe and diagram the characteristic features of the fluid mosaic membrane. The Structures of the Cell Membrane Fluid Quality of Membranes The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. To keep the membrane fluid at physiological temperatures the cell alters the composition of the phospholipids. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. For example winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. In animal cells cholesterol helps to prevent the packing of fatty acid tails and thus lowers the requirement of unsaturated fatty acids. This helps maintain the fluid nature of the cell membrane without it becoming too liquid at body temperature. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. The lipids in the membrane are in random bulk flow moving about 22 µm (micrometers) per second. Phospholipids freely move in the same layer of the membrane and rarely flip to the other layer. Flipping of phospholipids from one layer to the other rarely occurs because flipping requires the hydrophilic head to pass through the hydrophobic region of the bilayer. Click the green arrow to play the animation. The Mosaic Quality of Membranes Proteins Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins.  Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. Carbohydrates The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection. Membranes are Asymmetric As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. Summary: Membranes as Mosaics of Structure and Function The biological membrane is a collage of many different proteins embedded in the fluid matrix of the lipid bilayer. The lipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane, and its structure creates a semi-permeable membrane. The hydrophobic core impedes the diffusion of hydrophilic structures, such as ions and polar molecules but allows hydrophobic molecules, which can dissolve in the membrane, to cross it with ease. Proteins determine most of the membrane's specific functions. The plasma membrane and the membranes of the various organelles each have unique collections of proteins. For example, to date more than 50 kinds of proteins have been found in the plasma membrane of red blood cells. Graded Quiz Fluid Quality of Membranes The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. To keep the membrane fluid at physiological temperatures the cell alters the composition of the phospholipids. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. For example winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. In animal cells cholesterol helps to prevent the packing of fatty acid tails and thus lowers the requirement of unsaturated fatty acids. This helps maintain the fluid nature of the cell membrane without it becoming too liquid at body temperature. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. The lipids in the membrane are in random bulk flow moving about 22 µm (micrometers) per second. Phospholipids freely move in the same layer of the membrane and rarely flip to the other layer. Flipping of phospholipids from one layer to the other rarely occurs because flipping requires the hydrophilic head to pass through the hydrophobic region of the bilayer. Click the green arrow to play the animation. The Mosaic Quality of Membranes Proteins Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins.  Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. Carbohydrates The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection. Membranes are Asymmetric As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. To keep the membrane fluid at physiological temperatures the cell alters the composition of the phospholipids. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. For example winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. In animal cells cholesterol helps to prevent the packing of fatty acid tails and thus lowers the requirement of unsaturated fatty acids. This helps maintain the fluid nature of the cell membrane without it becoming too liquid at body temperature. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. The lipids in the membrane are in random bulk flow moving about 22 µm (micrometers) per second. Phospholipids freely move in the same layer of the membrane and rarely flip to the other layer. Flipping of phospholipids from one layer to the other rarely occurs because flipping requires the hydrophilic head to pass through the hydrophobic region of the bilayer. Click the green arrow to play the animation. Proteins Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins.  Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. Carbohydrates The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection. Membranes are Asymmetric As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins.  Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection. As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. The biological membrane is a collage of many different proteins embedded in the fluid matrix of the lipid bilayer. The lipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane, and its structure creates a semi-permeable membrane. The hydrophobic core impedes the diffusion of hydrophilic structures, such as ions and polar molecules but allows hydrophobic molecules, which can dissolve in the membrane, to cross it with ease. Proteins determine most of the membrane's specific functions. The plasma membrane and the membranes of the various organelles each have unique collections of proteins. For example, to date more than 50 kinds of proteins have been found in the plasma membrane of red blood cells.   Fluid Mosaic Model Upon completion of this module, students will be able to: Define the functions of each of the classes of lipids. Explain how the different structural features of fatty acids influence their role in phospholipids and fats. Define the amphipathic character of a phospholipid and glycolipid. Name and identify the ester bonds between fatty acids and glycerol and the glycerol and phosphate. Describe and identify the difference between a liposome and a micelle. Describe and diagram the characteristic features of the fluid mosaic membrane. The Structures of the Cell Membrane Fluid Quality of Membranes The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. To keep the membrane fluid at physiological temperatures the cell alters the composition of the phospholipids. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. For example winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. In animal cells cholesterol helps to prevent the packing of fatty acid tails and thus lowers the requirement of unsaturated fatty acids. This helps maintain the fluid nature of the cell membrane without it becoming too liquid at body temperature. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. The lipids in the membrane are in random bulk flow moving about 22 µm (micrometers) per second. Phospholipids freely move in the same layer of the membrane and rarely flip to the other layer. Flipping of phospholipids from one layer to the other rarely occurs because flipping requires the hydrophilic head to pass through the hydrophobic region of the bilayer. Click the green arrow to play the animation. The Mosaic Quality of Membranes Proteins Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins.  Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. Carbohydrates The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection. Membranes are Asymmetric As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. Summary: Membranes as Mosaics of Structure and Function The biological membrane is a collage of many different proteins embedded in the fluid matrix of the lipid bilayer. The lipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane, and its structure creates a semi-permeable membrane. The hydrophobic core impedes the diffusion of hydrophilic structures, such as ions and polar molecules but allows hydrophobic molecules, which can dissolve in the membrane, to cross it with ease. Proteins determine most of the membrane's specific functions. The plasma membrane and the membranes of the various organelles each have unique collections of proteins. For example, to date more than 50 kinds of proteins have been found in the plasma membrane of red blood cells. Fluid Quality of Membranes The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. To keep the membrane fluid at physiological temperatures the cell alters the composition of the phospholipids. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. For example winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. In animal cells cholesterol helps to prevent the packing of fatty acid tails and thus lowers the requirement of unsaturated fatty acids. This helps maintain the fluid nature of the cell membrane without it becoming too liquid at body temperature. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. The lipids in the membrane are in random bulk flow moving about 22 µm (micrometers) per second. Phospholipids freely move in the same layer of the membrane and rarely flip to the other layer. Flipping of phospholipids from one layer to the other rarely occurs because flipping requires the hydrophilic head to pass through the hydrophobic region of the bilayer. Click the green arrow to play the animation. The Mosaic Quality of Membranes Proteins Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins.  Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. Carbohydrates The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection. Membranes are Asymmetric As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. To keep the membrane fluid at physiological temperatures the cell alters the composition of the phospholipids. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. For example winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. In animal cells cholesterol helps to prevent the packing of fatty acid tails and thus lowers the requirement of unsaturated fatty acids. This helps maintain the fluid nature of the cell membrane without it becoming too liquid at body temperature. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. The lipids in the membrane are in random bulk flow moving about 22 µm (micrometers) per second. Phospholipids freely move in the same layer of the membrane and rarely flip to the other layer. Flipping of phospholipids from one layer to the other rarely occurs because flipping requires the hydrophilic head to pass through the hydrophobic region of the bilayer. Click the green arrow to play the animation. Proteins Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins.  Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. Carbohydrates The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection. Membranes are Asymmetric As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. Because the cell membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to communicate with other cells and exchange nutrients with the extracellular space. These roles are primarily filled by proteins. Membrane proteins are classified into two major categories, integral proteins and peripheral proteins.  Integral membrane proteins are those proteins that are embedded in the lipid bilayer and are generally characterized by their solubility in non-polar, hydrophobic solvents. Transmembrane proteins are examples of integral proteins with hydrophobic regions that completely span the hydrophobic interior of the membrane. The parts of the protein exposed to the interior and exterior of the cell are hydrophilic. Integral proteins can serve as pores that selectively allow ions or nutrients into the cell. They also transmit signals into and out of the cell. Unlike integral proteins that span the membrane, peripheral proteins reside on only one side of the membrane and are often attached to integral proteins. Some peripheral proteins serve as anchor points for the cytoskeleton or extracellular fibers. Proteins are much larger than lipids and move more slowly. Some move in seemingly directed manner while others drift. The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. Carbohydrates are added to lipids and proteins by a process called glycosylation, and are called glycolipids or glycoproteins. These short carbohydrates, or oligosaccharides, are usually chains of 15 or fewer sugar molecules. Oligosaccharides give a cell identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types and transplant rejection. As discussed above and seen in the picture, the cell membrane is asymmetric. The extracellular face of the membrane is in contact with the extracellular matrix. The extracellular side of the membrane contains oligosaccharides that distinguish the cell as self. It also contains the end of integral proteins that interact with signals from other cells and sense the extracellular environment. The inner membrane is in contact the contents of the cell. This side of the membrane anchors to the cytoskeleton and contains the end of integral proteins that relay signals received on the external side. The biological membrane is a collage of many different proteins embedded in the fluid matrix of the lipid bilayer. The lipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane, and its structure creates a semi-permeable membrane. The hydrophobic core impedes the diffusion of hydrophilic structures, such as ions and polar molecules but allows hydrophobic molecules, which can dissolve in the membrane, to cross it with ease. Proteins determine most of the membrane's specific functions. The plasma membrane and the membranes of the various organelles each have unique collections of proteins. For example, to date more than 50 kinds of proteins have been found in the plasma membrane of red blood cells.   Lipids Upon completion of this module, students will be able to: Define the functions of each of the classes of lipids. Explain how the different structural features of fatty acids influence their role in phospholipids and fats. Define the amphipathic character of a phospholipid and glycolipid. Name and identify the ester bonds between fatty acids and glycerol and the glycerol and phosphate. Describe and identify the difference between a liposome and a micelle. Describe and diagram the characteristic features of the fluid mosaic membrane. Introduction to Lipids The cell is composed of two distinctive environments: the hydrophilic aqueous cytoplasm and the hydrophobic lipid membranes. The lipid environment is defined by the family of molecules that are characterized by their hydrophobic nature and their common metabolic origin. Three members of the lipid family of molecules will be discussed in this course: fats (triacylglcerol), phospholipids, and steroids. The Structure of Lipids Lipid molecules are slightly soluble to insoluble in water. Lipids are hydrophobic because the molecules consist of long, 16-18 carbon, hydrocarbon chains (or backbones) with only a small amount of oxygen containing groups. Lipids serve many functions in organisms. Fats (or triglycerides) are used to store energy. Phospholipids and steroids are the key components of cell membranes. Lipds are also the major components of waxes, pigments, and steroid hormones. Fats (triacylglycerols, triglycerides) Various forms of a 12-carbon fatty acid are shown. The top structure is the fully saturated fat, lauric acid. The two lower structures show two forms of unsaturated fatty acids that can be generated from lauric acid by formation of a single double bond. The cis (left) form is typically found in biological lipids, note that the double bond has kinked the hydrocarbon chain. The trans (right) form is generated by a chemical process that transforms unsaturated fatty acids to saturated fatty acids. This process is used to convert liquid vegetable oils to solid margarine. Fats are synthesized from two different classes of molecules: fatty acids and alcohol. The fatty acids are unbranched hydrocarbons that terminate with a single carboxyl functional group. The fatty acids are generally 16-22 carbons long and can be both saturated and unsaturated. Saturated fatty acids have no carbon-carbon double bonds (they are saturated with hydrogen), while the unsaturated fatty acids have one to three double bonds along the backbone carbon chain. These double bonds introduce "kinks" in the carbon chain which have important consequences on the fluid nature of lipid membranes. Unsaturated fatty acids have lower melting points than saturated fatty acids. To construct a fat, or triacylglycerol, three fatty acid molecules are attached to the glycerol through an ester bond between the carboxyl group of the fatty acids and the three alcohol groups of a glycerol molecule. This is another example of a condensation reaction that results in formation of an ester in this case and the release of a water molecule. A fat molecule can be composed of one, two, or three different types of fatty acids each of which can be saturated or unsaturated. An unsaturated fat has at least one unsaturated fatty acid, whereas a saturated fat has none. Because the double bonds of the unsaturated fatty acids introduce kinks in the hydrocarbon backbone, unsaturated fats will not pack into a regular structure and thus remain fluid at lower temperatures. A saturated fat will pack well and be a solid a low temperatures. Fats are mainly energy storage and insulating molecules. Per gram, fats contain twice as much energy as carbohydrates. Layers of fat also surround the vital organs of animals to cushion them, and layers of fat under the skin of animals provide insulation. Phospholipids Phospholipids contain only two fatty acids attached to a glycerol head. This occurs by a condensation reaction similar to the one discussed above. The third alcohol of the glycerol forms an ester bond through reaction with phosphoric acid. This is another example of a condensation reaction between an acid and an alcohol with the release of water. As a triprotic acid (i.e it has three acidic functions on the phorphorus atom) the phosphate group attached to the glycerol has the potential to form ester links with a variety of other molecules such as carbohydrates, choline, inositol and amino acids. The phosphate group along with the glycerol group make the head of the phospholipid hydrophilic, whereas the fatty acid tail is hydrophobic. Thus phospholipids are amphipathic:a molecule with a polar end and a hydrophobic end. When phospholipids are in an aqueous solution they will self assemble into micelles or bilayers, structures that exclude water molecules from the hydrophobic tails while keeping the hydrophilic head in contact with the aqueous solution. View the animation that demonstrates the formation of micelles and bilayers. Click the green arrow to play the animation. Phospholipids serve a major function in the cells of all organisms: they form the phospholipid membranes that surround the cell and intracellular organelles such as the mitochondria. The cell membrane is a fluid, semi-permeable bilayer that separates the cell's contents from the environment, see animation below. The membrane is fluid at physiological temperatures and allows cells to change shape due to physical constraints or changing cellular volumes. The phospholipid membrane allows free diffusion of some small molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and small hydrocarbons, but not charged ions, polar molecules or other larger molecules such as glucose. This semi-permeable nature of the membrane allows the cell to maintain the composition of the cytoplasm independent of the external environment. A closer view of a Lipid Bilayer forming a membrane Steroids The steroids are a family of lipids based on a molecule with four fused carbon rings. This family includes many hormones and cholesterol. Cholesterol is a component of the cell membrane in animals and functions to moderate membrane fluidity because it restricts the motion of the fatty acid tails. Structure of Cholesterol Cholesterol in the membrane decreases the fluidity. Review of Lipids Examine the effect of cholesterol on membrane fluidity using the animations below. Use the play/pause button on the left to start or stop the animation. Use menu to move between scenes. The cell is composed of two distinctive environments: the hydrophilic aqueous cytoplasm and the hydrophobic lipid membranes. The lipid environment is defined by the family of molecules that are characterized by their hydrophobic nature and their common metabolic origin. Three members of the lipid family of molecules will be discussed in this course: fats (triacylglcerol), phospholipids, and steroids. Lipid molecules are slightly soluble to insoluble in water. Lipids are hydrophobic because the molecules consist of long, 16-18 carbon, hydrocarbon chains (or backbones) with only a small amount of oxygen containing groups. Lipids serve many functions in organisms. Fats (or triglycerides) are used to store energy. Phospholipids and steroids are the key components of cell membranes. Lipds are also the major components of waxes, pigments, and steroid hormones. Fats (triacylglycerols, triglycerides) Various forms of a 12-carbon fatty acid are shown. The top structure is the fully saturated fat, lauric acid. The two lower structures show two forms of unsaturated fatty acids that can be generated from lauric acid by formation of a single double bond. The cis (left) form is typically found in biological lipids, note that the double bond has kinked the hydrocarbon chain. The trans (right) form is generated by a chemical process that transforms unsaturated fatty acids to saturated fatty acids. This process is used to convert liquid vegetable oils to solid margarine. Fats are synthesized from two different classes of molecules: fatty acids and alcohol. The fatty acids are unbranched hydrocarbons that terminate with a single carboxyl functional group. The fatty acids are generally 16-22 carbons long and can be both saturated and unsaturated. Saturated fatty acids have no carbon-carbon double bonds (they are saturated with hydrogen), while the unsaturated fatty acids have one to three double bonds along the backbone carbon chain. These double bonds introduce "kinks" in the carbon chain which have important consequences on the fluid nature of lipid membranes. Unsaturated fatty acids have lower melting points than saturated fatty acids. To construct a fat, or triacylglycerol, three fatty acid molecules are attached to the glycerol through an ester bond between the carboxyl group of the fatty acids and the three alcohol groups of a glycerol molecule. This is another example of a condensation reaction that results in formation of an ester in this case and the release of a water molecule. A fat molecule can be composed of one, two, or three different types of fatty acids each of which can be saturated or unsaturated. An unsaturated fat has at least one unsaturated fatty acid, whereas a saturated fat has none. Because the double bonds of the unsaturated fatty acids introduce kinks in the hydrocarbon backbone, unsaturated fats will not pack into a regular structure and thus remain fluid at lower temperatures. A saturated fat will pack well and be a solid a low temperatures. Fats are mainly energy storage and insulating molecules. Per gram, fats contain twice as much energy as carbohydrates. Layers of fat also surround the vital organs of animals to cushion them, and layers of fat under the skin of animals provide insulation. Phospholipids Phospholipids contain only two fatty acids attached to a glycerol head. This occurs by a condensation reaction similar to the one discussed above. The third alcohol of the glycerol forms an ester bond through reaction with phosphoric acid. This is another example of a condensation reaction between an acid and an alcohol with the release of water. As a triprotic acid (i.e it has three acidic functions on the phorphorus atom) the phosphate group attached to the glycerol has the potential to form ester links with a variety of other molecules such as carbohydrates, choline, inositol and amino acids. The phosphate group along with the glycerol group make the head of the phospholipid hydrophilic, whereas the fatty acid tail is hydrophobic. Thus phospholipids are amphipathic:a molecule with a polar end and a hydrophobic end. When phospholipids are in an aqueous solution they will self assemble into micelles or bilayers, structures that exclude water molecules from the hydrophobic tails while keeping the hydrophilic head in contact with the aqueous solution. View the animation that demonstrates the formation of micelles and bilayers. Click the green arrow to play the animation. Phospholipids serve a major function in the cells of all organisms: they form the phospholipid membranes that surround the cell and intracellular organelles such as the mitochondria. The cell membrane is a fluid, semi-permeable bilayer that separates the cell's contents from the environment, see animation below. The membrane is fluid at physiological temperatures and allows cells to change shape due to physical constraints or changing cellular volumes. The phospholipid membrane allows free diffusion of some small molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and small hydrocarbons, but not charged ions, polar molecules or other larger molecules such as glucose. This semi-permeable nature of the membrane allows the cell to maintain the composition of the cytoplasm independent of the external environment. A closer view of a Lipid Bilayer forming a membrane Steroids The steroids are a family of lipids based on a molecule with four fused carbon rings. This family includes many hormones and cholesterol. Cholesterol is a component of the cell membrane in animals and functions to moderate membrane fluidity because it restricts the motion of the fatty acid tails. Structure of Cholesterol Cholesterol in the membrane decreases the fluidity. Review of Lipids Examine the effect of cholesterol on membrane fluidity using the animations below. Use the play/pause button on the left to start or stop the animation. Use menu to move between scenes. Various forms of a 12-carbon fatty acid are shown. The top structure is the fully saturated fat, lauric acid. The two lower structures show two forms of unsaturated fatty acids that can be generated from lauric acid by formation of a single double bond. The cis (left) form is typically found in biological lipids, note that the double bond has kinked the hydrocarbon chain. The trans (right) form is generated by a chemical process that transforms unsaturated fatty acids to saturated fatty acids. This process is used to convert liquid vegetable oils to solid margarine. Fats are synthesized from two different classes of molecules: fatty acids and alcohol. The fatty acids are unbranched hydrocarbons that terminate with a single carboxyl functional group. The fatty acids are generally 16-22 carbons long and can be both saturated and unsaturated. Saturated fatty acids have no carbon-carbon double bonds (they are saturated with hydrogen), while the unsaturated fatty acids have one to three double bonds along the backbone carbon chain. These double bonds introduce "kinks" in the carbon chain which have important consequences on the fluid nature of lipid membranes. Unsaturated fatty acids have lower melting points than saturated fatty acids. To construct a fat, or triacylglycerol, three fatty acid molecules are attached to the glycerol through an ester bond between the carboxyl group of the fatty acids and the three alcohol groups of a glycerol molecule. This is another example of a condensation reaction that results in formation of an ester in this case and the release of a water molecule. A fat molecule can be composed of one, two, or three different types of fatty acids each of which can be saturated or unsaturated. An unsaturated fat has at least one unsaturated fatty acid, whereas a saturated fat has none. Because the double bonds of the unsaturated fatty acids introduce kinks in the hydrocarbon backbone, unsaturated fats will not pack into a regular structure and thus remain fluid at lower temperatures. A saturated fat will pack well and be a solid a low temperatures. Fats are mainly energy storage and insulating molecules. Per gram, fats contain twice as much energy as carbohydrates. Layers of fat also surround the vital organs of animals to cushion them, and layers of fat under the skin of animals provide insulation. Phospholipids contain only two fatty acids attached to a glycerol head. This occurs by a condensation reaction similar to the one discussed above. The third alcohol of the glycerol forms an ester bond through reaction with phosphoric acid. This is another example of a condensation reaction between an acid and an alcohol with the release of water. As a triprotic acid (i.e it has three acidic functions on the phorphorus atom) the phosphate group attached to the glycerol has the potential to form ester links with a variety of other molecules such as carbohydrates, choline, inositol and amino acids. The phosphate group along with the glycerol group make the head of the phospholipid hydrophilic, whereas the fatty acid tail is hydrophobic. Thus phospholipids are amphipathic:a molecule with a polar end and a hydrophobic end. When phospholipids are in an aqueous solution they will self assemble into micelles or bilayers, structures that exclude water molecules from the hydrophobic tails while keeping the hydrophilic head in contact with the aqueous solution. View the animation that demonstrates the formation of micelles and bilayers. Click the green arrow to play the animation. Phospholipids serve a major function in the cells of all organisms: they form the phospholipid membranes that surround the cell and intracellular organelles such as the mitochondria. The cell membrane is a fluid, semi-permeable bilayer that separates the cell's contents from the environment, see animation below. The membrane is fluid at physiological temperatures and allows cells to change shape due to physical constraints or changing cellular volumes. The phospholipid membrane allows free diffusion of some small molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and small hydrocarbons, but not charged ions, polar molecules or other larger molecules such as glucose. This semi-permeable nature of the membrane allows the cell to maintain the composition of the cytoplasm independent of the external environment. A closer view of a Lipid Bilayer forming a membrane The steroids are a family of lipids based on a molecule with four fused carbon rings. This family includes many hormones and cholesterol. Cholesterol is a component of the cell membrane in animals and functions to moderate membrane fluidity because it restricts the motion of the fatty acid tails. Structure of Cholesterol Cholesterol in the membrane decreases the fluidity. Examine the effect of cholesterol on membrane fluidity using the animations below. Use the play/pause button on the left to start or stop the animation. Use menu to move between scenes.   Active Diffusion Be able to recognize and describe sucrose, lactose, cellulose, glycogen, amylose, amylopectin, and starch Be able to distinguish characteristic structural differences among homopolysaccharides Be able to distinguish and describe the differences between plant cell and bacterial cell wall. Active Diffusion: Begin description of Active Diffusion   Active Transport Distinguish between facilitated diffusion and active transport. Describe why the process requires energy. Describe a typical source of energy (general and specific examples). Active Transport In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against a gradient. The eukaryotc cell, a typical mammalian cell, has many compartments within the cell each surrounded by a lipid bilayer membrane. In most cases the environment within the compartment is different than that in the cytoplasm. An example is the lysosome, a degradative organelle (membrane bound compartment within the cell) whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from the outside of the cell or from other compartments within the cell. To carry out this function the lysosome maintains a much lower pH inside the lysosome relative to the cytoplasm. At equilibrium, the concentration of protons would be equal on both the inside and outside of the lysosome. To decrease the pH inside of the lysosome, the concentration of protons will need to be greater inside the lysosome than in the cytoplasm. To accomplish this protons will need to move from a low concentration to a high concentration. This is a non-spontaneous process and requires the cell to do work to move the ions up-hill against the gradient. To do work, the cell must expend energy and actively move (pump) the ions. This process is referred to as active transport. The source of energy for this process in most biological systems is the hydrolysis of ATP. The following animation depicts another example of active transport; the sodium-potassium ATPase. This active transport system moves three sodium ions out of the cell and two potassium ions into the cell, each against a gradient. Transport Proteins Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require channels or ports in the membrane through which the generally non-permeable molecules can pass. These protein transporters contribute to the mosaic character of the fluid mosaic character of the biological membrane. There are a variety of different structures associated with transport proteins and at the same time many transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) have structural similarities while maintaining their ability to discriminate between molecules. Thus transport proteins have been classified both by structure and by function. For the purposes of this course, the classification will be that of function though similarities in structure will be observed in the examples chosen. There are three classifications of transport proteins based on mechanism of transport: Uniport, Symport and Antiport. The animations on the following pages will demonstrate the three classes of proteins with examples of each. In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against a gradient. The eukaryotc cell, a typical mammalian cell, has many compartments within the cell each surrounded by a lipid bilayer membrane. In most cases the environment within the compartment is different than that in the cytoplasm. An example is the lysosome, a degradative organelle (membrane bound compartment within the cell) whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from the outside of the cell or from other compartments within the cell. To carry out this function the lysosome maintains a much lower pH inside the lysosome relative to the cytoplasm. At equilibrium, the concentration of protons would be equal on both the inside and outside of the lysosome. To decrease the pH inside of the lysosome, the concentration of protons will need to be greater inside the lysosome than in the cytoplasm. To accomplish this protons will need to move from a low concentration to a high concentration. This is a non-spontaneous process and requires the cell to do work to move the ions up-hill against the gradient. To do work, the cell must expend energy and actively move (pump) the ions. This process is referred to as active transport. The source of energy for this process in most biological systems is the hydrolysis of ATP. The following animation depicts another example of active transport; the sodium-potassium ATPase. This active transport system moves three sodium ions out of the cell and two potassium ions into the cell, each against a gradient. Transport Proteins Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require channels or ports in the membrane through which the generally non-permeable molecules can pass. These protein transporters contribute to the mosaic character of the fluid mosaic character of the biological membrane. There are a variety of different structures associated with transport proteins and at the same time many transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) have structural similarities while maintaining their ability to discriminate between molecules. Thus transport proteins have been classified both by structure and by function. For the purposes of this course, the classification will be that of function though similarities in structure will be observed in the examples chosen. There are three classifications of transport proteins based on mechanism of transport: Uniport, Symport and Antiport. The animations on the following pages will demonstrate the three classes of proteins with examples of each.   Antiport Antiport Antiports transport two different molecules through the membrane in opposite directions.   Membrane Transport The cell membrane creates a physical barrier between the interior and exterior of the cell. Only some small molecules and ions can cross the membrane freely. For all other molecules there are specific proteins that allow molecules to cross the membrane. These proteins are very specific to the type of molecule they transport, just as enzymes are very specific for their ligands. Transport proteins can either be energy requiring, that is active, or passive. Passive transport is possible when the transport molecule is moving a molecule down its concentration gradient. When the cell needs to move molecules against a concentration gradient then it must expend energy.   Introduction After studying this introduction to endocytosis, students will be able to: Describe the difference between general endocytosis and protein transduction. Explain the difference between pinocytosis and phagocytosis. Describe the fate of the material undergoing endocytosis. Expound on how the inside surface of the endocytic vesicle is the same as the outside surface of the cell and why that is important to the cell. Endocytosis While facilitated diffusion and active transport account for a great deal of the specific uptake of molecules and ions needed by the cell, other sources of external matter can also be taken up by the cell. The channels and pores provide a means by which molecules can pass directly through the membrane to the cytoplasm. Other mechanisms also exist by which molecules are taken up by the cell but do not directly pass through the plasma membrane. This mechanism is referred to as endocytosis. This mechanism involves the engulfing of the matter by the plasma membrane and internalization of the engulfed material inside a cytoplasmic vesicle. Non-specific uptake of molecules occurs by phagocytosis (large particles and macromolecules) and pinocytosis (water soluble small molecules). In general endocytosis, a molecule or particle encounters the cell surface and randomly causes the membrane to create first a pit in the membrane, followed by a further invagination of the plasma membrane and finally the pinching off of the plasma membrane around the molecule or particle resulting in the formation of a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the asymmetry of the membrane would be apparent by the fact that the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior surface of the cell. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and its exposure to only the inside surface of the membrane is preserved. Exocytosis is just the reverse of this process with the fusion of an internal vesicle with the plasma membrane thus releasing its content to the outside. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and ensure neither growth nor shrinking of the cell size. Once internalized the new vesicle fuses with a slightly acidic early endosome and subsequently with the lysosome where the contents of the original endocytic vesicle are digested and the digested products released to the cytoplasm where they are available for use by the cell. This process is depicted in the following animation. You can use the magnifier in the lower righ-hand corner to zoom the animation Protein Transduction – an example of macropinocytosis In the early 1990’s an intriguing observation was made that has lead to a number of new approaches to drug delivery and therapeutic delivery systems. It is based on an observation of the activity of the transactivator TAT protein associated with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) and subsequently polyarginine (arginine is a positively charge, naturally occurring amino acid) and other proteins containing a basic peptide region referred to as the protein transduction domain (PTD). The observation was the translocation of virtually any molecule, particle, even liposome that has the PTD attached. While there is still some debate as to the exact mechanism of the translocation, there is some agreement on the general process. The highly positively charged PTD, attached to its ‘cargo’, has a tight electrostatic (ionic) interaction with certain molecules, which are ubiquitous to all cells, in the plasma membrane. Binding to the surface initiates macropinocytosis (pinocytosis with a slightly larger soluble molecule). The presence of the PTD provides for high efficiency initiation of endocytosis. While not involving a specific receptor, the binding by the PTD to the cell surface reduces the concentration dependence for initiation of internalization. You can use the magnifier in the lower righ-hand corner to zoom the animation In contrast to the normal endocytic vesicle the PTD directed endocytic vesicle undergoes retrograde transport. In this process the new vesicle fusses with the Golgi and is the PTD containing proteins are transported back to the Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum where they undergo post-translational modification and are transduced directly to the cytoplasm.   Endocytosis Endocytosis - OBSOLETE FILE While facilitated diffusion and active transport account for a great deal of the specific uptake of molecules and ions needed by the cell, other sources of external matter can also be taken up by the cell. The channels and pores provide a means by which molecules can pass directly through the membrane to the cytoplasm. Other mechanisms also exist by which molecules are taken up by the cell but do not directly pass through the plasma membrane. This mechanism is referred to as endocytosis. This mechanism involves the engulfing of the matter by the plasma membrane and internalization of the engulfed material inside a cytoplasmic vesicle. Non-specific uptake of molecules occurs by phagocytosis (large particles and macromolecules) and pinocytosis (water soluble small molecules). In general endocytosis, a molecule or particle encounters the cell surface and randomly causes the membrane to create first a pit in the membrane, followed by a further invagination of the plasma membrane and finally the pinching off of the plasma membrane around the molecule or particle resulting in the formation of a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the asymmetry of the membrane would be apparent by the fact that the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior of the cell. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and its exposure to only the inside surface of the membrane is preserved. Exocytosis is just the reverse of this process with the fusion of an internal vesicle with the plasma membrane thus releasing its content to the outside. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and ensure neither growth nor shrinking of the cell size. Once internalized the new vesicle fuses with a slightly acidic early endosome an subsequently with the lysosome where the contents of the original endocytic vesicle are digested and the digested products released to the cytoplasm where they are available for use by the cell. This process is depicted in the following animation. [Insert: simple endocytosis animation] Protein Transduction – an example of macropinocytosis In the early 1990’s an intriguing observation was made that has lead to a number of new approaches to drug delivery and therapeutic delivery systems. It is based on an observation of the activity of the transactivator TAT protein associated with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) and subsequently polyarginine (arginine is a positively charge, naturally occurring amino acid) and other proteins containing a basic peptide region referred to as the protein transduction domain (PTD). The observation was the translocation of virtually any molecule, particle, even liposome that has the PTD attached. While there is still some debate as to the exact mechanism of the translocation, there is some agreement on the general process. The highly positively charged PTD, attached to its ‘cargo’, has a tight electrostatic (ionic) interaction with certain molecules, which are ubiquitous to all cells, in the plasma membrane. Binding to the surface initiates macropinocytosis (pinocytosis with a slightly larger soluble molecule). The presence of the PTD provides for high efficiency initiation of endocytosis. While not involving a specific receptor, the binding by the PTD to the cell surface reduces the concentration dependence for initiation of internalization. [Insert: protein transduction animation (modified endocytosis animation)] In contrast to the normal endocytic vesicle the PTD directed endocytic vesicle undergoes retrograde transport. In this process the new vesicle fusses with the Golgi and is the PTD containing proteins are transported back to the Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum where they undergo post-translational modification and are transduced directly to the cytoplasm. Receptor Mediated Endocytosis Much as the channels and pores discriminate between specific molecules and their transport through the membrane, specificity and discrimination are seen during endocytosis using specific membrane bound receptors. This targeting defines the uptake of specific molecules or assemblies by specific cells. The following animation demonstrates the process of receptor mediated endocytosis for the Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) complex. The process is divided into the individual steps to emphasize similarities and differences among general endocytosis, protein transduction and receptor mediated endocytosis. Several general concepts are illustrated during the process including bioselectivity and intermediate recycling. [Insert: Receptor mediated endocytosis animation] Insert: Did I Get It?   Facilitated Diffusion Distinguish between simple diffusion and facilitated diffusion. Describe the structural and chemical characteristics of a typical 'facilitator'. Facilitated Diffusion Cells must be able to move polar molecules such as nutrients and ions across the lipid bilayer of the membrane in order to carry out life processes. But the molecules will still move spontaneously down a concentration from high to low concentration. To allow the polar molecules, which are not soluble in the lipid bilayer, to pass across the hydrophobic barrier it is necessary to provide ports, channels or holes through the membrane. These channels can either allow the molecules to move freely according to their concentration differences or they can be gated channels that control the movement of the polar molecules according to the needs of the cell. In most cases these channels are very discriminatory and will only allow specific molecules to pass; another example of bioselectivity. The channels facilitate the movement of molecules that otherwise would not be spontaneously permeable to the lipid bilayer. The process of moving impermeable molecules across a membrane using channels or pores is referred to as facilitated diffusion. Because the molecules are moving down a concentration gradient the process is driven by simple diffusion. The following simulation depicts the facilitated diffusion of glucose across the membrane using the glucose permease transporter. Simulation of Simple Facilitated Diffusion   Osmosis Describe the solute differences between isotonic, hypertonic and hypotonic solutions. Explain the affect of an isotonic, hypertonic and hypotonic solution on the shape of a cell. Describe how osmotic pressure is generated and what conditions are necessary to create high osmotic pressure in a cell. Explain why the description of osmosis emphasizes the solvent hanges. Osmosis Cells continually encounter changes in their external ionic environment and will spontaneously respond by attempting to equalize the concentration of ions on the inside and outside of the cell. Because the plasma membrane (lipid bilayer) is significantly less permeable to ions than water, the establishment of an equal concentration of the ions on either side of the membrane is accomplished by the net movement of water toward the higher concentration of ions to reduce the concentration. This movement of water in response to an imbalance of solute (ion) is referred to as osmosis. This is illustrated in the following simulation. Three different conditions may exist in the relationship between the solute (ion) concentration and solvent (water) concentration across a membrane. Isotonic, hypertonic and hypotonic refer to the relative concentration of the solute (small molecules) in the extracellular (outside) space surrounding the cell relative to the solute concentration inside the cell. In an isotonic solution, the concentration of the solute and therefore solvent water (water potential) is the same on both sides. A hypotonic solution is one whose solute concentration is lower (water concentration is higher [i.e. high water potential]) in the extracellular space than inside the cell. Because the water (the solvent) can more easily pass through the membrane than can the solute (ions), the net flow is spontaneous in the direction of the solvent (water) moving from its higher concentration (high water potential) outside the cell to the inside of the cell. Conversely, a hypertonic solution refers to an extracellular solution with a higher solute concentration (lower water concentration [i.e. low water potential]) outside the cell than inside the cell. In this case, the more permeable solvent, water, would flow spontaneously out of the cell toward the low water potential to dilute the solute molecules and create an equal concentration of solute molecules on both sides of the membrane.   Passive/Simple Diffusion Be able to describe the spontaneous direction of movement of molecules into and within a cell. Be able to describe the affect of the lipid bilayer as a barrier to simple diffusion. Be able to describe factors that might influence the diffusion of molecules in the cell. Be able to relate simple diffusion to the limitations of the size of a cell. Passive/Simple Diffusion: Both large and small molecules follow the same general principal of diffusion. Molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following Brownian motion. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached in which the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Simple Diffusion, Without Brownian Motion Simple Diffusion, Brownian Motion The introduction of a cell or liposome to the solution places a barrier to the molecules. As three different molecules diffuse to equilibrium in the following simulation, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage. Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. How would these three types of molecules differ in their physical and chemical characteristics? Give an example of each type of molecule. (Hint: you may wish to review the material on the types of bonding and interactions possible by molecules and the characteristics of the lipid bilayer.) Simulation of Three Molecules of Different Permeability Of the first two types of molecules, the first type might include a molecule such as cholesterol which has some solubility in water but is highly soluble in the non-polar environment of the lipid bilayer and thus will freely pass into the hydrophobic environment of the membrane, distribute freely in the membrane and then some fraction will dissolve in the aqueous environment of the cytoplasm. A second example of this type of permeable molecule is water which while polar is small and able to freely pass across the membrane. The lipid bilayer is much less permeable to the second type of molecule indicating a more polar character and a larger size. Examples of such molecules are the sodium and chloride ions. As a general rule, charged molecules are much less permeable to the lipid bilayer. The third type of molecule is the very polar, in many cases charged, and usually larger molecule. Examples are carbohydrates and amino acids. Aspirin, depicted below, is a monocarboxylic acid with a pKa of approximately 4. Why is this molecule absorbed through the membranes of the stomach cells much more readily than through the membranes of the mouth and esophagus? Aspirin In Protonated and non-Protonated States   Passive/Simple Diffusion Describe the spontaneous direction of the movement of molecules Describe the factors that affect simple diffusion Passive/Simple Diffusion: Both large and small molecules follow the same general principal of diffusion. Molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following Brownian motion. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached in which the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Add ink to each beaker and watch the diffusion process. After a period of time, is there a difference in the distribution of ink in each beaker? Follow the yellow ink molecule in each beaker for some time. In which simulation does the yellow ball take longer to transverse the beaker? If this simulation represented the movement of the ink in air (no gravity considerations), would the movement be faster or slower in water? Why? Simple Diffusion, Without Brownian Motion Simple Diffusion, Brownian Motion The introduction of a cell or liposome into the solution places a barrier to the molecules. As three different molecules diffuse to equilibrium they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage in the following animation. Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. Simulation of Three Molecules of Different Permeability Of the first two types of molecules, the first type might include a molecule such as cholesterol which has some solubility in water but is highly soluble in the non-polar environment of the lipid bilayer and thus will freely pass into the hydrophobic environment of the membrane, distribute freely in the membrane and then some fraction will dissolve in the aqueous environment of the cytoplasm. A second example of this type of permeable molecule is water which while polar is small and able to freely pass across the membrane. The lipid bilayer is much less permeable to the second type of molecule indicating a more polar character and a larger size. Examples of such molecules are the sodium and chloride ions. As a general rule, charged molecules are much less permeable to the lipid bilayer. The third type of molecule is very polar, in many cases charged, and usually a larger molecule. Examples are carbohydrates and amino acids. Aspirin In Protonated and non-Protonated States Both large and small molecules follow the same general principal of diffusion. Molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following Brownian motion. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached in which the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Add ink to each beaker and watch the diffusion process. After a period of time, is there a difference in the distribution of ink in each beaker? Follow the yellow ink molecule in each beaker for some time. In which simulation does the yellow ball take longer to transverse the beaker? If this simulation represented the movement of the ink in air (no gravity considerations), would the movement be faster or slower in water? Why? Simple Diffusion, Without Brownian Motion Simple Diffusion, Brownian Motion The introduction of a cell or liposome into the solution places a barrier to the molecules. As three different molecules diffuse to equilibrium they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage in the following animation. Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. Simulation of Three Molecules of Different Permeability Of the first two types of molecules, the first type might include a molecule such as cholesterol which has some solubility in water but is highly soluble in the non-polar environment of the lipid bilayer and thus will freely pass into the hydrophobic environment of the membrane, distribute freely in the membrane and then some fraction will dissolve in the aqueous environment of the cytoplasm. A second example of this type of permeable molecule is water which while polar is small and able to freely pass across the membrane. The lipid bilayer is much less permeable to the second type of molecule indicating a more polar character and a larger size. Examples of such molecules are the sodium and chloride ions. As a general rule, charged molecules are much less permeable to the lipid bilayer. The third type of molecule is very polar, in many cases charged, and usually a larger molecule. Examples are carbohydrates and amino acids. Aspirin In Protonated and non-Protonated States   Passive Diffusion Be able to recognize and describe sucrose, lactose, cellulose, glycogen, amylose, amylopectin, and starch Be able to distinguish characteristic structural differences among homopolysaccharides Be able to distinguish and describe the differences between plant cell and bacterial cell wall. Passive Diffusion: Begin description of Passive Diffusion   Receptor Mediated Endocytosis Upon further exploratiion of endocytosis, students will be able to: Explain how receptor mediated endocytosis differs from phagocytosis. Disntiguish how receptor mediated endocytosis differs from protein transduction. Describe the fate of a molecule taken into a cell by receptor mediate endocytosis. Characterize the environmental changes necessary to allow recycling of intermediates in receptor mediated endocytosis. Receptor Mediated Endocytosis Much as the channels and pores discriminate between specific molecules and their transport through the membrane, specificity and discrimination are seen during endocytosis using specific membrane bound receptors. This targeting defines the uptake of specific molecules or assemblies by specific cells. The following animation demonstrates the process of receptor mediated endocytosis for the Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) complex. The process is divided into the individual steps to emphasize similarities and differences among general endocytosis, protein transduction and receptor mediated endocytosis. Several general concepts are illustrated during the process including bioselectivity and intermediate recycling.   Signal Transduction The plasma membrane is a very selective barrier. We have seen how some small molecule pass freely, but most molecules are selectively brought into the cells using transporter proteins. Most of these small molecules are metabolites or ions used in the general metabolism of the cell. The cell also needs to transduce information across its membrane. Cells receive signals from the surrounding fluids and other cells. These signals may tell the cell to divide or prevent division and promote growth. The animation below demonstrates the action of signal transduction through a G-Protein coupled receptor. The ligand is the external signal and it binds the receptor. The G-Protein complex is now able to bind to the receptor. This activates the G-protein by allowing the exchange of GTP for GDP. When bound to GTP the G-protein is able to bind to Adenylate cyclase and activate it. Adenylate cyclase generates the internal signal that is then interpreted by the cell. Graded Quiz The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once.   Signal Transduction The plasma membrane is a very selective barrier. We have seen how some small molecule pass freely, but most molecules are selectively brought into the cells using transporter proteins. Most of these small molecules are metabolites or ions used in the general metabolism of the cell. The cell also needs to transduce information across its membrane. Cells receive signals from the surrounding fluids and other cells. These signals may tell the cell to divide or prevent division and promote growth. The animation below demonstrates the action of signal transduction through a G-Protein coupled receptor. The ligand is the external signal and it binds the receptor. The G-Protein complex is now able to bind to the receptor. This activates the G-protein by allowing the exchange of GTP for GDP. When bound to GTP the G-protein is able to bind to Adenylate cyclase and activate it. Adenylate cyclase generates the internal signal that is then interpreted by the cell.   Membrane Transport Introduction Membrane Transport The cell membrane provides a semi-permeable barrier between the inside and the outside of the cell. This barrier provides control for transport of nutrients, ions and signals between the highly variable outside environment and the relatively well-defined interior of the cell. This unit of the course will explore the ways in which molecules can pass across the membrane (diffusion and active transport), can be transported into the cell without passing across the membrane (endocytosis), and can send signals for actions within the cell without actually passing across the membrane themselves (signal transduction).   Transport Proteins Upon investigation of transport proteins, students will be able to: Describe the general structural features of a membrane transport protein. Distinguish the mechanisms of uniports, symports and antiports. Describe a set of criteria for selective transport of a given molecule to pass through a membrane channel. Transport Proteins Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require channels or ports in the membrane through which the generally non-permeable molecules can pass. These protein transporters contribute to the mosaic character of the fluid mosaic character of the biological membrane. There are a variety of different structures associated with transport proteins and at the same time many transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) have structural similarities while maintaining their ability to discriminate between molecules. Thus transport proteins have been classified both by structure and by function. For the purposes of this course, the classification will be that of function though similarities in structure will be observed in the examples chosen. There are three classifications of transport proteins based on mechanism of transport: Uniport, Symport and Antiport. The following image illustrates the three classes of proteins with examples of each. Carrier Proteins   Uniport Uniport A uniport is a protein that transports a single molecule across the membrane of the cell. Intracellular Transport The animation below shows how the glucose transporter molecule is structured with a spiral channel that allows the glucose molecules to passively navigate the channel and move through the membrane. Click the green arrow to play the animation. Intercellular Transport The simulation below demonstrates how transmembrane protein structures from adjacent cells line up to form Gap Junctions, channels between cells that act as size exclusion transporters. While water molecules are small enough to move through the membranes, the Gap Junctions facilitate that movement and the movement of molecules up to 1500 daltons (approximately a 15 amino acid peptide) but not larger molecules. Gap Junctions   Phospholipids in Water Remember that hydrophilic molecules dissolve in water and hydrophobic ones do not. But phospholipids have a “split personality” in this regard. How do they behave in water? When small numbers of phospholipids are in an aqueous solution they will self-assemble into micelles, structures that exclude water molecules from the hydrophobic tails while keeping the hydrophilic head in contact with the aqueous solution. If enough phospholipids are present, they will form a bilayer. This is the favored formation because it is the most stable orientation for phospholipids in a water solution. View the animation that demonstrates the formation of micelles and bilayers. Click the green arrow to play the animation. With their “split personality,” phospholipids are able to play a very important role in biology. Phospholipids, together with other molecules in smaller quantities, form membranes that surround the cell and intracellular organelles such as mitochondria. The cell membrane is a fluid, semipermeable bilayer that separates the cell's contents from the environment. See animation below. A closer view of a Lipid Bilayer forming a membrane   Importance of the Phospolipid Membrane Structure What is important about the structure of a phospholipid membrane? First, it is fluid. This allows cells to change shape, permitting growth and movement. The fluidity of the membrane is regulated by the types of phospholipids and the presence of cholesterol. Second, the phospholipid membrane is selectively permeable. The ability of a molecule to pass through the membrane depends on its polarity and to some extent its size. Many non-polar molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and small hydrocarbons can flow easily through cell membranes. This feature of membranes is very important because hemoglobin, the protein that carries oxygen in our blood, is contained within red blood cells. Oxygen must be able to freely cross the membrane so that hemoglobin can get fully loaded with oxygen in our lungs, and deliver it effectively to our tissues. Most polar substances are stopped by a cell membrane, except perhaps for small polar compounds like the one carbon alcohol, methanol and water. Glucose is too large to pass through the membrane unassisted and a special transporter protein ferries it across. Certain types of diabetes are caused by misregulation of the glucose transporter. Charged ions, such as sodium (Na+) or potassium (K+) ions seldom go through a membrane, consequently they also need special transporter molecules to pass through the membrane. The inability of Na+ and K+ to pass through the membrane allows the cell to regulation the concentrations of these ions on the inside or outside of the cell. The conduction of electrical signals in your nerves is based on the ability of cells to control Na+ and K+ levels. Selectively permeable membranes allow cells to keep the chemistry of the cytoplasm different from that of the external environment. It also allows them to maintain chemically unique conditions inside their organelles.   Membrane Structure: Phospholipid Bilayer Plasma Membrane The cell membrane, also called the plasma membrane, is the boundary of the cell; it determines what enters and exits the cell, and it is how the cell interacts with its environment. Have you ever looked closely at the colors swirling in a soap bubble? This may give you a feel for the fluid nature of a cell's membrane. A membrane's components are in constant motion, as if they were flowing in a river. A variety of different proteins, carbohydrates, sterols, and other molecules are embedded in the phospholipid bilayer. This gives the impression of a tile mosaic, which has variously shaped and colored tiles embedded in grout. Because of its fluidity and its variety, biologists currently describe the cell membrane as a fluid mosaic. The phospholipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane. The bilayer's structure causes the membrane to be semipermeable. The hydrophobic core blocks the diffusion of hydrophilic ions and polar molecules. Small hydrophobic molecules and gases, which can dissolve in the membrane's core, cross it with ease. Other molecules require proteins to transport them across the membrane. Proteins determine most of the membrane's specific functions. The plasma membrane and the membranes of the various organelles each have unique collections of proteins. For example, to date more than 50 kinds of proteins have been found in the plasma membrane of red blood cells. Importance of Phospholipid Membrane Structure What is important about the structure of a phospholipid membrane? First, it is fluid. This allows cells to change shape, permitting growth and movement. The fluidity of the membrane is regulated by the types of phospholipids and the presence of cholesterol. Second, the phospholipid membrane is selectively permeable. The ability of a molecule to pass through the membrane depends on its polarity and to some extent its size. Many nonpolar molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and small hydrocarbons can flow easily through cell membranes. This feature of membranes is very important because hemoglobin, the protein that carries oxygen in your blood, is contained within red blood cells. Oxygen must be able to freely cross the membrane so that hemoglobin can get fully loaded with oxygen in your lungs, and deliver it effectively to your tissues. Most polar substances are stopped by a cell membrane, except perhaps for small polar compounds like one-carbon alcohol, methanol, and water. Glucose is too large to pass through the membrane unassisted and a special transporter protein ferries it across. Certain types of diabetes are caused by misregulation of the glucose transporter. Charged ions, such as sodium (Na+) or potassium (K+) ions seldom go through a membrane; consequently, they also need special transporter molecules to pass through the membrane. The inability of Na+ and K+ to pass through the membrane allows the cell to regulate the concentrations of these ions on the inside or outside of the cell. The conduction of electrical signals in your nerves is based on the ability of cells to control Na+ and K+ levels. Selectively permeable membranes allow cells to keep the chemistry of the cytoplasm different from that of the external environment. It also allows them to maintain chemically unique conditions inside their organelles. The cell membrane, also called the plasma membrane, is the boundary of the cell; it determines what enters and exits the cell, and it is how the cell interacts with its environment. Have you ever looked closely at the colors swirling in a soap bubble? This may give you a feel for the fluid nature of a cell's membrane. A membrane's components are in constant motion, as if they were flowing in a river. A variety of different proteins, carbohydrates, sterols, and other molecules are embedded in the phospholipid bilayer. This gives the impression of a tile mosaic, which has variously shaped and colored tiles embedded in grout. Because of its fluidity and its variety, biologists currently describe the cell membrane as a fluid mosaic. The phospholipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane. The bilayer's structure causes the membrane to be semipermeable. The hydrophobic core blocks the diffusion of hydrophilic ions and polar molecules. Small hydrophobic molecules and gases, which can dissolve in the membrane's core, cross it with ease. Other molecules require proteins to transport them across the membrane. Proteins determine most of the membrane's specific functions. The plasma membrane and the membranes of the various organelles each have unique collections of proteins. For example, to date more than 50 kinds of proteins have been found in the plasma membrane of red blood cells. What is important about the structure of a phospholipid membrane? First, it is fluid. This allows cells to change shape, permitting growth and movement. The fluidity of the membrane is regulated by the types of phospholipids and the presence of cholesterol. Second, the phospholipid membrane is selectively permeable. The ability of a molecule to pass through the membrane depends on its polarity and to some extent its size. Many nonpolar molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and small hydrocarbons can flow easily through cell membranes. This feature of membranes is very important because hemoglobin, the protein that carries oxygen in your blood, is contained within red blood cells. Oxygen must be able to freely cross the membrane so that hemoglobin can get fully loaded with oxygen in your lungs, and deliver it effectively to your tissues. Most polar substances are stopped by a cell membrane, except perhaps for small polar compounds like one-carbon alcohol, methanol, and water. Glucose is too large to pass through the membrane unassisted and a special transporter protein ferries it across. Certain types of diabetes are caused by misregulation of the glucose transporter. Charged ions, such as sodium (Na+) or potassium (K+) ions seldom go through a membrane; consequently, they also need special transporter molecules to pass through the membrane. The inability of Na+ and K+ to pass through the membrane allows the cell to regulate the concentrations of these ions on the inside or outside of the cell. The conduction of electrical signals in your nerves is based on the ability of cells to control Na+ and K+ levels. Selectively permeable membranes allow cells to keep the chemistry of the cytoplasm different from that of the external environment. It also allows them to maintain chemically unique conditions inside their organelles.   Fluidity of the Membrane The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. Click the green arrow to play the animation.   Fluidity of Cell Membranes The cell membrane must be a dynamic structure if the cell is to grow and respond to environmental changes. The fluidity of the membrane is demonstrated in the following animation. Click the green arrow to play the animation. Maintaining Proper Fluidity of the Membrane To keep their membranes fluid across a range of temperatures, cells alter the composition of their membranes. Phospholipids with differing fatty acid tails have different levels of mobility in the membrane. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. For example, winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. The unsaturated fatty acid tails keep membranes fluid because they are kinked and resistant to packing. In animal cells, the membrane is made up of mostly saturated fatty acids, so it is relatively stable (not too fluid). Cholesterol plays a key role in keeping animal cell membranes fluid across a range of temperatures. At high temperatures, cholesterol molecules interfere with phospholipid movement and reduce membrane fluidity. At low temperatures, cholesterol keeps the saturated fatty acid tails from packing and maintains adequate fluidity. Other sterols play a similar role in the cell membranes of plants, fungi, and even some prokaryotes. Fungi, for example, use ergosterol. Structure of Cholesterol Cholesterol in the membrane maintains the correct fluidity. To keep their membranes fluid across a range of temperatures, cells alter the composition of their membranes. Phospholipids with differing fatty acid tails have different levels of mobility in the membrane. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. For example, winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. The unsaturated fatty acid tails keep membranes fluid because they are kinked and resistant to packing. In animal cells, the membrane is made up of mostly saturated fatty acids, so it is relatively stable (not too fluid). Cholesterol plays a key role in keeping animal cell membranes fluid across a range of temperatures. At high temperatures, cholesterol molecules interfere with phospholipid movement and reduce membrane fluidity. At low temperatures, cholesterol keeps the saturated fatty acid tails from packing and maintains adequate fluidity. Other sterols play a similar role in the cell membranes of plants, fungi, and even some prokaryotes. Fungi, for example, use ergosterol. Structure of Cholesterol Cholesterol in the membrane maintains the correct fluidity.   Maintaining Proper Fluidity of the Membrane To keep their membranes fluid across a range of temperatures, cells alter the composition of their membranes. Phospholipids with differing fatty acid tails have different levels of mobility in the membrane. The right ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids keeps the membrane fluid at any temperature conducive to life. For example, winter wheat responds to decreasing temperatures by increasing the amount of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes. The unsaturated fatty acid tails keep membranes fluid because they are kinked and resistant to packing. In animal cells, the membrane is made up of mostly saturated fatty acids so it is relatively stable (not too fluid). Cholesterol plays a key role in keeping animal cell membranes fluid across a range of temperatures. At high temperatures, cholesterol molecules interfere with phospholipid movement and reduce membrane fluidity. At low temperatures, cholesterol keeps the saturated fatty acid tails from packing and maintains adequate fluidity. Other sterols play a similar role in the cell membranes of plants, fungi, and even some prokaryotes. Fungi, for example, use ergosterol. Structure of Cholesterol Cholesterol in the membrane maintains the correct fluidity.   Components of the Membrane Components of the Membrane The plasma membrane is a complex structure containing many different macromolecules. Wikicommons Sterols Sterols are used by some cells to maintain proper membrane fluidity. Carbohydrates The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. These short carbohydrates play a role in giving a cell its identity (i.e., distinguishing self from non-self) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types. Proteins Membranes also contain proteins, which carry out many of the functions of the membrane. Some functions of membrane proteins are: Transport. Because the plasma membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to transport larger materials into and out of the cell. Communication. Because the plasma membrane is the border of the cell, this is where the cell communicates with its environment. Membrane proteins are able to receive signals from outside the cell and begin a chain of events that cause the cell to respond to these signals. Metabolism. Membrane proteins can be enzymes that are involved in the chemical reactions of metabolism. These are the processes that allow the cell to grow, obtain energy, and eliminate wastes. Adhesion. Membrane proteins help cells bind to each other and form tissues. One example of this is skin cells, which must form a tight surface if the skin is to maintain proper integrity. Membrane proteins also bind to molecules inside and outside the cell which help the cell maintain its structure. In order to carry out their functions, some proteins need to be embedded in the membrane. These proteins are called integral proteins (“integral” because they are “integrated” into the membrane). For example, a membrane protein that transports materials into or out of the cell needs to completely span the membrane. On the other hand, a protein that binds the cell to another can simply be attached to the outer surface of the membrane. Proteins that are attached to the inner or outer surface of a membrane are called peripheral proteins. Membrane Proteins   Components of the Membrane The cellular or plasma membrane is a lipid bilayer composed of phospholipids and associated proteins, specialized lipids, and carbohydrates. The composition of the plasma membrane varies according to the type and function of the cell. Components of the Membrane The plasma membrane is a complex structure containing many different macromolecules. Wikicommons Sterols Sterols are used by some cells to maintain proper membrane fluidity. Carbohydrates The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. These short carbohydrates play a role in giving a cell its identity (i.e., distinguishing self from nonself) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types. Proteins Membranes also contain proteins, which carry out many of the functions of the membrane. Some functions of membrane proteins are: Transport. Because the plasma membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to transport larger materials into and out of the cell. Communication. Because the plasma membrane is the border of the cell, this is where the cell communicates with its environment. Membrane proteins are able to receive signals from outside the cell and begin a chain of events that cause the cell to respond to these signals. Metabolism. Membrane proteins can be enzymes that are involved in the chemical reactions of metabolism. These are the processes that allow the cell to grow, obtain energy, and eliminate wastes. Adhesion. Membrane proteins help cells bind to each other and form tissues. One example of this is skin cells, which must form a tight surface if the skin is to maintain proper integrity. Membrane proteins also bind to molecules inside and outside the cell, which helps the cell maintain its structure. In order to carry out their functions, some proteins need to be embedded in the membrane. These proteins are called integral proteins (“integral” because they are “integrated” into the membrane). For example, a membrane protein that transports materials into or out of the cell needs to completely span the membrane. On the other hand, a protein that binds the cell to another can simply be attached to the outer surface of the membrane. Proteins that are attached to the inner or outer surface of a membrane are called peripheral proteins. Membrane Proteins Sterols are used by some cells to maintain proper membrane fluidity. The extracellular surface of the cell membrane is decorated with carbohydrate groups attached to lipids and proteins. These short carbohydrates play a role in giving a cell its identity (i.e., distinguishing self from nonself) and are the distinguishing factor in human blood types. Membranes also contain proteins, which carry out many of the functions of the membrane. Some functions of membrane proteins are: Transport. Because the plasma membrane is only semipermeable, the cell needs a way to transport larger materials into and out of the cell. Communication. Because the plasma membrane is the border of the cell, this is where the cell communicates with its environment. Membrane proteins are able to receive signals from outside the cell and begin a chain of events that cause the cell to respond to these signals. Metabolism. Membrane proteins can be enzymes that are involved in the chemical reactions of metabolism. These are the processes that allow the cell to grow, obtain energy, and eliminate wastes. Adhesion. Membrane proteins help cells bind to each other and form tissues. One example of this is skin cells, which must form a tight surface if the skin is to maintain proper integrity. Membrane proteins also bind to molecules inside and outside the cell, which helps the cell maintain its structure.   Application Spotlight: Archaea Prokaryotes are an enormously diverse group of organisms. However, they can be organized into two primary groups: bacteria and archaea. While both bacteria and archaea are prokaryotes (both groups lack nuclei), the archaeans have some interesting structural characteristics in the cell membrane that have unique functional significance. The cell membranes found in both eukaryotic and bacterial cells consist of a phospholipid bilayer that separates the internal environment of the cell from its external environment and regulates the materials that pass in and out of the cell. This enables the cell to maintain internal homeostasis, regardless of changing external conditions. You already know that cell membranes can be structurally different, to enable different functions. For example, some bacteria live in the frozen Arctic Circle. They are able to maintain membrane fluidity because of an increased concentration of unsaturated fatty acid tails found within the membrane phospholipids. The Archaean Cell Membrane Archaeans are often found living in extreme environments such as high temperature, pH, or salinity, and as such, are often called “extremophiles” (loving extreme conditions). How can their cell membranes stay intact in such conditions? The cell membrane must have a unique structure to withstand these conditions. Grand Prismatic Spring, Yellowstone National Park Archaea were first found in extreme environments, such as volcanic hot springs like Grand Prismatic Spring, Hot Springs, Midway and Lower Geyser Basin, Yellowstone National Park. The picture on the right shows an aerial view of the spring. Photo by Jim Peaco, National Park Service, July, 2001, Public Domain. You will explore characteristics of the archaean cell membrane in the following activities. First, you need to orient yourself to the phospholipid found in a bacterial cell. You might want to review the structure of phospholipids. You figured out that the structure of the archaean phospholipid is significantly different from the structure of the bacterial phospholipid. These structural differences lead to functional differences that enable archaeans to survive in extreme environments. This is an excellent example of how structure determines function at the cellular level of organization. Archaeans are often found living in extreme environments such as high temperature, pH, or salinity, and as such, are often called “extremophiles” (loving extreme conditions). How can their cell membranes stay intact in such conditions? The cell membrane must have a unique structure to withstand these conditions. Grand Prismatic Spring, Yellowstone National Park Archaea were first found in extreme environments, such as volcanic hot springs like Grand Prismatic Spring, Hot Springs, Midway and Lower Geyser Basin, Yellowstone National Park. The picture on the right shows an aerial view of the spring. Photo by Jim Peaco, National Park Service, July, 2001, Public Domain. You will explore characteristics of the archaean cell membrane in the following activities. First, you need to orient yourself to the phospholipid found in a bacterial cell. You might want to review the structure of phospholipids.   Membrane - Diffusion Both large and small molecules follow the same general principle of diffusion. Molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following Brownian motion, or random movements. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached in which the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Add ink to the beaker and watch the diffusion process. After a period of time, how has the distribution of the ink changed in the beaker? Follow the yellow ink for some time. Does its behavior change as time passes? Simple Diffusion   What Is Diffusion? How Molecules Enter and Exit Cells The cell membrane determines what enters and exits the cell, and it is how the cell interacts with its environment. As you have already learned, the cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer structure that provides a semipermeable barrier between the inside and the outside of the cell. In this module, you will explore the following three ways molecular substances enter and exit the cell: Molecules can pass across the membrane (diffusion and active transport). Molecules can be transported into the cell without passing across the membrane (endocytosis). Molecules can send signals for actions within the cell without actually passing across the membrane themselves (signal transduction). This module will discuss how the cell membrane controls the transport of nutrients, ions and signals between the highly variable outside environment and the relatively well-defined interior of the cell. Passive/Simple Diffusion Molecular substances enter and exit the cell so that: nutrients and waste can be exchanged; the cell can perform its function; and, when required, the cell can send appropriate signals to other cells. Transporting some substances may require the cell to exert energy and other molecules may cross through the membrane passively, requiring no use of energy by the cell. One way molecules passively move through the cell membrane is a process called simple diffusion. In simple diffusion, both large and small molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following random movements, referred to as Brownian motion. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached and the water in the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Add ink to the beaker and watch the diffusion process. After a period of time, how has the distribution of the ink changed in the beaker? Follow the yellow ink for some time. Does its behavior change as time passes? Simple Diffusion The cell membrane determines what enters and exits the cell, and it is how the cell interacts with its environment. As you have already learned, the cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer structure that provides a semipermeable barrier between the inside and the outside of the cell. In this module, you will explore the following three ways molecular substances enter and exit the cell: Molecules can pass across the membrane (diffusion and active transport). Molecules can be transported into the cell without passing across the membrane (endocytosis). Molecules can send signals for actions within the cell without actually passing across the membrane themselves (signal transduction). This module will discuss how the cell membrane controls the transport of nutrients, ions and signals between the highly variable outside environment and the relatively well-defined interior of the cell. Molecular substances enter and exit the cell so that: nutrients and waste can be exchanged; the cell can perform its function; and, when required, the cell can send appropriate signals to other cells. Transporting some substances may require the cell to exert energy and other molecules may cross through the membrane passively, requiring no use of energy by the cell. One way molecules passively move through the cell membrane is a process called simple diffusion. In simple diffusion, both large and small molecules spontaneously move from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration following random movements, referred to as Brownian motion. The classic example is the diffusion of a drop of ink placed in a beaker of water. The concentrated drop of color slowly disperses (diffuses) until at some point equilibrium is reached and the water in the beaker appears to have a uniform color. The following animation depicts this simple diffusion process. Add ink to the beaker and watch the diffusion process. After a period of time, how has the distribution of the ink changed in the beaker? Follow the yellow ink for some time. Does its behavior change as time passes? Simple Diffusion   Selective Permeability of Membranes" The cell membrane provides a semi-permeable barrier between the inside and the outside of the cell. This barrier provides control for transport of nutrients, ions, and signals between the highly variable outside environment and the relatively well-defined interior of the cell. Here we will explore the ways in which molecules can pass across the membrane. Diffusion Across the Membrane Simulation of Three Molecules Interacting with a Membrane As three different molecules move, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage in the preceding animation. Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. Molecules can be divided into four categories with regard to their ability to cross the plasma membrane. The first category are non-polar molecules. These hydrophobic molecules can easily cross the membrane because they interact favorably with the non-polar lipids. Note that these molecules can accumulate in the membrane because they interact so well with the lipids. The second category are small polar molecules. Although they don’t interact with the lipids, their small size allows them to pass through small temporary holes in the membrane. The third category are large polar molecules. These have difficulty crossing the membrane because of their size and poor interaction with the lipids. The last category are ionic compounds, their charge interacts very unfavorably with the lipids, making it very difficult for them to cross the membrane. Simulation of Three Molecules Interacting with a Membrane As three different molecules move, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage in the preceding animation. Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. Molecules can be divided into four categories with regard to their ability to cross the plasma membrane. The first category are non-polar molecules. These hydrophobic molecules can easily cross the membrane because they interact favorably with the non-polar lipids. Note that these molecules can accumulate in the membrane because they interact so well with the lipids. The second category are small polar molecules. Although they don’t interact with the lipids, their small size allows them to pass through small temporary holes in the membrane. The third category are large polar molecules. These have difficulty crossing the membrane because of their size and poor interaction with the lipids. The last category are ionic compounds, their charge interacts very unfavorably with the lipids, making it very difficult for them to cross the membrane.   Selective Permeability of Membranes The cell membrane provides a semipermeable barrier between the inside and the outside of the cell. The phospholipid bilayer structure of the membrane allows selected ions and organic molecules to pass through the plasma membrane and regulates the movement of molecular substances. This characteristic of the membrane, known as selective permeability, acts as a filter that allows only selected substances that are needed for the survival and functioning of the cell in and out. The movement of molecular substances across the membrane can occur passively without the cell exerting energy or it can occur through the cell's use of energy to transport substances. Selective permeability affects the energy required to transport substances in and out of the cell. This page will explore the conditions under which molecules can pass across the membrane passively through diffusion. Diffusion Across the Membrane Molecules can be divided into four categories with regard to their ability to cross the plasma membrane. The first category is nonpolar molecules. These hydrophobic molecules can easily cross the membrane because they interact favorably with the nonpolar lipids. Note that these molecules can accumulate in the membrane because they interact so well with the lipids. The second category is small polar molecules. Although they don’t interact with the lipids, their small size allows them to pass through small temporary holes in the membrane. The third category is large polar molecules. These have difficulty crossing the membrane because of their size and poor interaction with the lipids. The last category is ionic compounds. Their charge interacts very unfavorably with the lipids, making it very difficult for them to cross the membrane. Simulation of Three Molecules Interacting with a Membrane As three different molecules move, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage in the preceding animation. Notice that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane, and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. The size, polarity, and charge of a substance will determine whether or not the substance can cross the cell membrane by diffusion. The cholesterol was an example of a lipid, and is highly soluble in the nonpolar environment of the lipid bilayer. You saw, in the animation above, the cholesterol freely passing into the hydrophobic environment of the membrane. Cholesterol distributes freely in the membrane and then some fraction will dissolve in the aqueous environment of the cytoplasm. Water, on the other hand, while polar, is small enough to cross the membrane at a slow rate. Note that specialized transport proteins in certain cell membranes can provide a channel for the water, greatly increasing its rate of crossing the membrane. The lipid bilayer is much less permeable to the ion, because of its charge and larger size. As a general rule, charged molecules are much less permeable to the lipid bilayer. Molecules can be divided into four categories with regard to their ability to cross the plasma membrane. The first category is nonpolar molecules. These hydrophobic molecules can easily cross the membrane because they interact favorably with the nonpolar lipids. Note that these molecules can accumulate in the membrane because they interact so well with the lipids. The second category is small polar molecules. Although they don’t interact with the lipids, their small size allows them to pass through small temporary holes in the membrane. The third category is large polar molecules. These have difficulty crossing the membrane because of their size and poor interaction with the lipids. The last category is ionic compounds. Their charge interacts very unfavorably with the lipids, making it very difficult for them to cross the membrane. Simulation of Three Molecules Interacting with a Membrane As three different molecules move, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage in the preceding animation. Notice that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane, and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule.   Facilitated Diffusion Cells must be able to move large polar and charged molecules across the lipid bilayer of the membrane in order to carry out life processes. To allow these molecules, which are not soluble in the lipid bilayer, to pass across the hydrophobic barrier, it is necessary to provide ports, channels, or holes through the membrane. The molecules will still move spontaneously down a concentration gradient from high to low concentration. These channels can either remain open at all times, allowing the molecules to move freely according to the concentration gradient, or they can be gated channels that open and close in response to the needs of the cell. In most cases these channels are very discriminatory and will only allow specific molecules to pass. The process of moving impermeable molecules across a membrane (down their concentration gradients) using channels or pores is referred to as facilitated diffusion. Because the molecules are moving down a concentration gradient, the process is driven by simple diffusion and does not require the input of additional energy from the cell. The following simulation depicts the facilitated diffusion of glucose across the membrane using the glucose permease transporter. Simulation of Simple Facilitated Diffusion   Facilitated Diffusion Cells must be able to move large polar and charged molecules across the lipid bilayer of the membrane in order to carry out life processes. To allow these molecules, which are not soluble in the lipid bilayer, to pass across the hydrophobic barrier, it is necessary to provide ports, channels, or holes through the membrane. The molecules will still move spontaneously down a concentration gradient from high to low concentration. These channels can either remain open at all times, allowing the molecules to move freely according to the concentration gradient, or they can be gated channels that open and close in response to the needs of the cell. In most cases these channels are very discriminatory and will only allow specific molecules to pass. The process of moving impermeable molecules across a membrane (down their concentration gradients) using channels or pores is referred to as facilitated diffusion. Because the molecules are moving down a concentration gradient, the process is driven by simple diffusion and does not require the input of additional energy from the cell. The following simulation depicts the facilitated diffusion of glucose across the membrane using the glucose permease transporter. Simulation of Simple Facilitated Diffusion Channels and Carrier Proteins Membrane Transport via Channels Shown below is a different cell with the same extracellular concentrations of solute as the cell in the previous question. This cell has a channel instead of a carrier protein to transport the molecule. This Carrier Protein Rate Curve depicts the relationship between the rate of transport and solute concentration we would expect for a carrier protein. Membrane Transport via Channels Shown below is a different cell with the same extracellular concentrations of solute as the cell in the previous question. This cell has a channel instead of a carrier protein to transport the molecule. This Carrier Protein Rate Curve depicts the relationship between the rate of transport and solute concentration we would expect for a carrier protein.   Active Transport In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against their concentration gradient. The eukaryotic cell has many compartments within the cell each surrounded by a membrane. In most cases the environment within the compartment is different from the environment in the cytoplasm. An example is the lysosome, an organelle whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from the outside of the cell or from other compartments within the cell. To carry out this function the lysosome maintains a very low internal pH compared to that of the cytoplasm. Thus there is a steep pH gradient across the lysosome's membrane. This contrasts with the equilibrium state, in which the concentration of hydrogen ions would be the same inside and outside of the lysosome. Active Transport Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require channels or ports in the membrane through which the generally non-permeable molecules can pass. These protein transporters contribute to the mosaic character of the fluid mosaic character of the biological membrane. There are a variety of different structures associated with transport proteins and at the same time many transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) have structural similarities while maintaining their ability to discriminate between molecules. Thus transport proteins have been classified both by structure and by function. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next.   Active Transport In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against their concentration gradient. The eukaryotic cell has many compartments within the cell each surrounded by a membrane. In most cases the environment within the compartment is different from the environment in the cytoplasm. An example is the lysosome, an organelle whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from the outside of the cell or from other compartments within the cell. To carry out this function the lysosome maintains a very low internal pH compared to that of the cytoplasm. Thus there is a steep pH gradient across the lysosome's membrane. This contrasts with the equilibrium state, in which the concentration of hydrogen ions would be the same inside and outside of the lysosome. Active Transport Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require transport proteins that act as channels or ports in the membrane. Transport proteins have been classified both by structure and by function. The structure (shape) of each channel helps determine what materials can pass through. Even within classes of transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) there are many different structures that can discriminate between specific substances. Dozens of different transporters swirl around within the fluid membranes that enclose your cells and organelles, contributing greatly to their "mosaic" quality. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next.   Active Transport In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against their concentration gradient. The eukaryotic cell has many compartments within it, each surrounded by a membrane. In most cases, the environment within the compartment is different from the environment in the cytoplasm. An example is the lysosome, an organelle whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from outside the cell or from other compartments within the cell. To carry out this function, the lysosome maintains a very low internal pH compared to that of the cytoplasm. Thus, there is a steep pH gradient across the lysosome's membrane. This contrasts with the equilibrium state, in which the concentration of hydrogen ions would be the same inside and outside the lysosome. To decrease the pH inside the lysosome, the concentration of protons will need to be greater inside the lysosome than in the cytoplasm. To accomplish this, protons will need to move from a low concentration to a high concentration. This is a nonspontaneous process and requires the cell to do work to move the ions "uphill" against the concentration gradient. To do work, the cell must expend energy and actively move (pump) the ions. This process is referred to as active transport. The source of energy for this process in most biological systems is the hydrolysis of ATP. The animation that follows illustrates an example of an active transporter that uses energy from the molecule ATP to transport sodium (Na+) ions out of the cell and potassium (K+) ions into the cell. Both ions are moved against their concentration gradients. The main stages of the process are: Three Na+ ions from inside the cell bind to the transporter. A molecule of ATP binds to the transporter, providing the energy needed to change the shape of the transporter. This allows the Na+ to cross the membrane and exit the cell, against its concentration gradient. Two K+ ions from outside the cell bind to the transporter. The transporter changes shape again, bringing the K+ into the cell. Observe the active transport of sodium and potassium molecules using ATP. Transport Proteins Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require transport proteins that act as channels or ports in the membrane. Transport proteins are classified both by structure and by function. The structure (shape) of each channel helps determine what materials can pass through. Even within classes of transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) there are many different structures that can discriminate between specific substances. Dozens of different transporters swirl around within the fluid membranes that enclose your cells and organelles, contributing greatly to their "mosaic" quality. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next. Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require transport proteins that act as channels or ports in the membrane. Transport proteins are classified both by structure and by function. The structure (shape) of each channel helps determine what materials can pass through. Even within classes of transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) there are many different structures that can discriminate between specific substances. Dozens of different transporters swirl around within the fluid membranes that enclose your cells and organelles, contributing greatly to their "mosaic" quality. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next.   Active Transport In some cases it is necessary to move molecules against their concentration gradient. The eukaryotic cell has many compartments within it, each surrounded by a membrane. In most cases, the environment within the compartment is different from the environment in the cytoplasm. An example is the lysosome, an organelle whose function is to digest macromolecules delivered either from outside the cell or from other compartments within the cell. To carry out this function, the lysosome maintains a very low internal pH compared to that of the cytoplasm. Thus, there is a steep pH gradient across the lysosome's membrane. This contrasts with the equilibrium state, in which the concentration of hydrogen ions would be the same inside and outside the lysosome. To decrease the pH inside the lysosome, the concentration of protons will need to be greater inside the lysosome than in the cytoplasm. To accomplish this, protons will need to move from a low concentration to a high concentration. This is a nonspontaneous process and requires the cell to do work to move the ions "uphill" against the concentration gradient. To do work, the cell must expend energy and actively move (pump) the ions. This process is referred to as active transport. The source of energy for this process in most biological systems is the hydrolysis of ATP. The animation that follows illustrates an example of an active transporter that uses energy from the molecule ATP to transport sodium (Na+) ions out of the cell and potassium (K+) ions into the cell. Both ions are moved against their concentration gradients. The main stages of the process are: Three Na+ ions from inside the cell bind to the transporter. A molecule of ATP binds to the transporter, providing the energy needed to change the shape of the transporter. This allows the Na+ to cross the membrane and exit the cell, against its concentration gradient. Two K+ ions from outside the cell bind to the transporter. The transporter changes shape again, bringing the K+ into the cell. Observe the active transport of sodium and potassium molecules using ATP. Transport Proteins Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require transport proteins that act as channels or ports in the membrane. Transport proteins are classified both by structure and by function. The structure (shape) of each channel helps determine what materials can pass through. Even within classes of transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) there are many different structures that can discriminate between specific substances. Dozens of different transporters swirl around within the fluid membranes that enclose your cells and organelles, contributing greatly to their "mosaic" quality. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next. Facilitated diffusion and active transport both require transport proteins that act as channels or ports in the membrane. Transport proteins are classified both by structure and by function. The structure (shape) of each channel helps determine what materials can pass through. Even within classes of transport proteins that carry out similar functions (e.g. ion channels) there are many different structures that can discriminate between specific substances. Dozens of different transporters swirl around within the fluid membranes that enclose your cells and organelles, contributing greatly to their "mosaic" quality. Molecules can also be moved across the membrane in bulk. Additionally, larger items (such as entire cells) can also be taken into a given cell. These processes are types of endocytosis and exoctyosis and will be discussed next.   Endocytosis & Exocytosis While facilitated diffusion and active transport account for a great deal of the specific uptake of molecules and ions needed by the cell, other sources of external matter can also be taken up by the cell. The channels and pores provide a means by which molecules can pass directly through the membrane to the cytoplasm. Other mechanisms also exist by which molecules are taken up by the cell but do not directly pass through the plasma membrane. This mechanism is referred to as endocytosis. This mechanism involves the engulfing of the matter by the plasma membrane and internalization of the engulfed material inside a cytoplasmic vesicle. Non-specific uptake of molecules occurs by phagocytosis (large particles and macromolecules) and pinocytosis (water soluble small molecules). Cells are also capable of recognizing specific particles and internalizing them in the same way, a process called receptor mediated endocytosis. In this case the particle first binds to a membrane protein receptor on the surface of the cell and the binding which induces the engulfment of the material bound to the membrane. In general, during endocytosis, a molecule or particle encounters the cell surface and randomly causes the membrane to create first a pit in the membrane, followed by a further invagination of the plasma membrane and finally the pinching off of the plasma membrane around the molecule or particle resulting in the formation of a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior surface of the cell. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and its exposure to only the inside surface of the membrane is preserved. Exocytosis is just the reverse of this process with the fusion of an internal vesicle with the plasma membrane thus releasing its content to the outside. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and ensure neither growth nor shrinking of the cell size. Once internalized the new vesicle fuses with a slightly acidic early endosome and subsequently with the lysosome where the contents of the original endocytic vesicle are digested and the digested products released to the cytoplasm where they are available for use by the cell. This process is depicted in the following animation. You can use the magnifier in the lower righ-hand corner to zoom the animation Immune cells protect the organism by recognizing foreign matter (such as bacteria). The bacteria are recognized by proteins (called receptors) on the surface of the immune cell. The immune cell (also known as a phagocytic cell) will then engulf the bacterial cells using the process of endocytosis. The vesicle that contains these bacterial cells is called a phagosome (“eating” “body”). The phagosome then fuses with lysosomes (which contain digestive enzymes). The digested bacterial products are then excreted through the process of exocytosis. Phagocytosis of a Bacterium   Endocytosis and Exocytosis Facilitated diffusion and active transport are not the only ways that materials can enter or leave cells. Through the processes of endocytosis and exocytosis, materials can be taken up or ejected in bulk, without passing through the cell's plasma membrane. In endocytosis, material is engulfed within an infolding of the plasma membrane and then brought into the cell within a cytoplasmic vesicle. To begin endocytosis, a particle encounters the cell surface and produces a dimple or pit in the membrane. The pit deepens, invaginates further, and finally pinches off to form a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior surface of the cell. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and the orientation of the plasma membrane are preserved. Once internalized, a new vesicle containing solid materials may fuse with a lysosome so that its solid contents are digested. The resulting molecules may be released to the cytoplasm for use within the cell. There are two general forms of endocytosis: phagocytosis and pinocytosis. Phagocytosis is the uptake of large solid particles such as bacteria or cellular debris. Pinocytosis is the uptake of fluid and any small molecules dissolved within it. Cells are also capable of recognizing specific particles and engulfing them in a more targeted way, a process called receptor-mediated endocytosis. In this case, the particle first binds to a membrane protein receptor on the surface of the cell. Binding of the target particle induces the cell to engulf it. Exocytosis is just the reverse of endocytosis. In exocytosis, an internal vesicle fuses with the plasma membrane and releases its contents to the outside. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and keeps the cell's size constant. The following animation depicts endocytosis. You can use the magnifier in the lower righ-hand corner to zoom the animation How are endocytosis and exocytosis important to everyday life? Immune cells protect animals by recognizing and destroying foreign objects such as bacteria. Disease-causing bacteria are recognized by proteins called receptors on the surface of the immune cell. The phagocytic immune cell will then engulf the bacterial cells (phagocytosis). The vesicle that contains these bacterial cells is called a phagosome ("phago" means "eating" and "-some" refers to "body"). The phagosome next fuses with lysosomes. Finally, the digested bacterial products are excreted through the process of exocytosis. Phagocytosis of a Bacterium   Endocytosis and Exocytosis Facilitated diffusion and active transport are not the only ways that materials can enter or leave cells. Through the processes of endocytosis and exocytosis, materials can be taken up or ejected in bulk, without passing through the cell's plasma membrane. In endocytosis, material is engulfed within an infolding of the plasma membrane and then brought into the cell within a cytoplasmic vesicle. To begin endocytosis, a particle encounters the cell surface and produces a dimple or pit in the membrane. The pit deepens, invaginates further, and finally pinches off to form a vesicle in the cytoplasm of the cell. Note that during the process the inside surface of the newly formed vesicle is the same as the exterior surface of the cell. Thus the integrity of the cytoplasm and the orientation of the plasma membrane are preserved. Once internalized, a new vesicle containing solid materials may fuse with a lysosome so that its solid contents are digested. The resulting molecules may be released to the cytoplasm for use within the cell. There are two general forms of endocytosis: phagocytosis and pinocytosis. Phagocytosis is the uptake of large solid particles such as bacteria or cellular debris. Pinocytosis is the uptake of fluid and any small molecules dissolved within it. Cells are also capable of recognizing specific particles and engulfing them in a more targeted way, a process called receptor-mediated endocytosis. In this case, the particle first binds to a membrane protein receptor on the surface of the cell. Binding of the target particle induces the cell to engulf it. Exocytosis is just the reverse of endocytosis. In exocytosis, an internal vesicle fuses with the plasma membrane and releases its contents to the outside. The balance of exocytosis and endocytosis preserves the size of the plasma membrane and keeps the cell's size constant. The following animation depicts endocytosis. You can use the magnifier in the lower righ-hand corner to zoom the animation How are endocytosis and exocytosis important to everyday life? Immune cells protect animals by recognizing and destroying foreign objects such as bacteria. Disease-causing bacteria are recognized by proteins called receptors on the surface of the immune cell. The phagocytic immune cell will then engulf the bacterial cells (phagocytosis). The vesicle that contains these bacterial cells is called a phagosome ("phago" means "eating" and "-some" refers to "body"). The phagosome next fuses with lysosomes. Finally, the digested bacterial products are excreted through the process of exocytosis. Phagocytosis of a Bacterium   Cell Membrane: Summary Summary Membranes are the defining characteristic of a cell in the same way that your skin distinguishes what is "you" from what is "not you." Like your skin, the membrane interacts with the environment and controls what gets in and what gets out. However, additional features (such as eyes and a mouth) are necessary for more complex interactions with the environment. Similarly, proteins in the membrane further help the membrane control what enters and exits and regulate environmental interactions. We’ll explore transport of things in and out of the cell in more detail in the next module. Review the following key terms and when you’re ready, take the module quiz. Key Terms The following key terms were introduced in this module. adhesion cell membrane cell wall endomembrane system integral proteins peripheral proteins phospholipid bilayer plasma membrane sterols Membranes are the defining characteristic of a cell in the same way that your skin distinguishes what is "you" from what is "not you." Like your skin, the membrane interacts with the environment and controls what gets in and what gets out. However, additional features (such as eyes and a mouth) are necessary for more complex interactions with the environment. Similarly, proteins in the membrane further help the membrane control what enters and exits and regulate environmental interactions. We’ll explore transport of things in and out of the cell in more detail in the next module. Review the following key terms and when you’re ready, take the module quiz. The following key terms were introduced in this module. adhesion cell membrane cell wall endomembrane system integral proteins peripheral proteins phospholipid bilayer plasma membrane sterols   Membrane Transport: Summary Summary The ability to carefully regulate substances moving in and out of the cell is crucial for maintaining cellular homeostasis. There are many ways items can get in and out of the cell. Some substances can move through simple diffusion. Others require a transport protein. Sometimes energy is needed and sometimes it is not. Membrane transport proteins are so important that serious diseases can result when they malfunction. Review these key terms and when you’re ready, take the module quiz. Key Terms The following terms were introduced in this module. active transport concentration gradients diffusion endocytosis exoctyosis facilitated diffusion hypertonic hypotonic isotonic osmosis passive transport selective permeability simple diffusion transport proteins The ability to carefully regulate substances moving in and out of the cell is crucial for maintaining cellular homeostasis. There are many ways items can get in and out of the cell. Some substances can move through simple diffusion. Others require a transport protein. Sometimes energy is needed and sometimes it is not. Membrane transport proteins are so important that serious diseases can result when they malfunction. Review these key terms and when you’re ready, take the module quiz. The following terms were introduced in this module. active transport concentration gradients diffusion endocytosis exoctyosis facilitated diffusion hypertonic hypotonic isotonic osmosis passive transport selective permeability simple diffusion transport proteins   Membrane Permeability Simulation of Three Molecules of Different Permeability   Simulations The following is the list of simulations provided within the various modules of the course. Dissociation of Weak Electrolytes Some molecules are weak electrolytes and exist in a reversible equilibrium between the starting molecule and its dissociated parts. For molecules that are weak electrolytes and act as acids (proton donors), the ratio of the products of the dissociated parts and the parent molecule is a constant (K) in neutral water for each separate molecular structure. Refer to page. Equilibrium of MO complex formation Equilibrium state as determined by protein and ligand concentrations: This simulation allows you to explore the equilibrium between free protein, ligand, and the complex, and how ligand concentration affects the equilibrium. Refer to page. Enzyme Catalysis Enzymes bind to substrates in a manner similar to the way myoglobin binds oxygen or the estradiol binds to the estrogen receptor, but enzymes can go one step further. In this case the ligand is specifically referred to as the substrate (the molecule that the enzyme will convert to product) and it binds to a specific binding region of the enzyme referred to as the active site. Once bound, the ligand, or substrate, can either simply reversibly come off the enzyme, or it can be converted into a new compound or product. Refer to page. Membrane Permeability The introduction of a cell or liposome to the solution places a barrier to the molecules. As three different molecules diffuse to equilibrium in the following simulation, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage. Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. These molecules move through the membranes via passive diffusion. Refer to page. Osmosis: Isotonic Equilibrium Cells continually encounter changes in their external ionic environment and will spontaneously respond by attempting to equalize the concentration of ions on the inside and outside of the cell. Because the plasma membrane (lipid bilayer) is significantly less permeable to ions than water, the establishment of an equal concentration of the ions on either side of the membrane is accomplished by the net movement of water toward the higher concentration of ions to reduce the concentration. This movement of water in response to an imbalance of solute (ion) is referred to as osmosis. Refer to page. Intercellular Transport: Gap Junctions This simulation demonstrates how transmembrane protein structures from adjacent cells line up to form Gap Junctions, channels between cells that act as size exclusion transporters. While water molecules are small enough to move through the membranes, the Gap Junctions facilitate that movement and the movement of molecules up to 1500 daltons (approximately a 15 amino acid peptide) but not larger molecules. Refer to page. Product inhibition This simulation demonstrates how a compound that is further down the pathway, or even a compound in a separate pathway, can inhibit a reaction Refer to page. Allosteric Binding This simulation demonstrates how Allosteric binding causes conformational changes to an enzyme that can inhibit or activate Enzyme-substrate binding. Refer to page. Calculating Free Energy This simulation demonstrates how to calculate the Gibbs free energy in a controlled reaction. Refer to page.   Simulations The following is the list of simulations provided within the various modules of the course. Dissociation of Weak Electrolytes Some molecules are weak electrolytes and exist in a reversible equilibrium between the starting molecule and its dissociated parts. For molecules that are weak electrolytes and act as acids (proton donors), the ratio of the products of the dissociated parts and the parent molecule is a constant (K) in neutral water for each separate molecular structure. Refer to page. Equilibrium of MO complex formation Equilibrium state as determined by protein and ligand concentrations: This simulation allows you to explore the equilibrium between free protein, ligand, and the complex, and how ligand concentration affects the equilibrium. Refer to page. Enzyme Catalysis Enzymes bind to substrates in a manner similar to the way myoglobin binds oxygen or the estradiol binds to the estrogen receptor, but enzymes can go one step further. In this case the ligand is specifically referred to as the substrate (the molecule that the enzyme will convert to product) and it binds to a specific binding region of the enzyme referred to as the active site. Once bound, the ligand, or substrate, can either simply reversibly come off the enzyme, or it can be converted into a new compound or product. Refer to page. Membrane Permeability The introduction of a cell or liposome to the solution places a barrier to the molecules. As three different molecules diffuse to equilibrium in the following simulation, they encounter the lipid bilayer depicted by the horizontal membrane across the center of the stage. Note that one type of molecule passes freely through the lipid bilayer while the second type of molecule only occasionally passes through the membrane and the lipid bilayer is totally impermeable to the third type of molecule. These molecules move through the membranes via passive diffusion. Refer to page. Osmosis: Isotonic Equilibrium Cells continually encounter changes in their external ionic environment and will spontaneously respond by attempting to equalize the concentration of ions on the inside and outside of the cell. Because the plasma membrane (lipid bilayer) is significantly less permeable to ions than water, the establishment of an equal concentration of the ions on either side of the membrane is accomplished by the net movement of water toward the higher concentration of ions to reduce the concentration. This movement of water in response to an imbalance of solute (ion) is referred to as osmosis. Refer to page. Intercellular Transport: Gap Junctions This simulation demonstrates how transmembrane protein structures from adjacent cells line up to form Gap Junctions, channels between cells that act as size exclusion transporters. While water molecules are small enough to move through the membranes, the Gap Junctions facilitate that movement and the movement of molecules up to 1500 daltons (approximately a 15 amino acid peptide) but not larger molecules. Refer to page. Product inhibition This simulation demonstrates how a compound that is further down the pathway, or even a compound in a separate pathway, can inhibit a reaction Refer to page. Allosteric Binding This simulation demonstrates how Allosteric binding causes conformational changes to an enzyme that can inhibit or activate Enzyme-substrate binding. Refer to page. Calculating Free Energy This simulation demonstrates how to calculate the Gibbs free energy in a controlled reaction. Refer to page.   Tutorial Animations The following is the list of tutorial animations explaining various complex biological processes. Biological Membranes Biological membranes are dynamic structures composed of a diverse set of phospholipid molecules and proteins. This tutorial explores some of the properties of the membranes. Refer to page. Phase Transition Phospholipids bilayers undergo a cooperative phase transition or melting that is similar to protein denaturation. The high degree of cooperativity is due to extensive interactions between the non-polar acyl chains in the center of the bilayer. The overall structure of the lipid bilayer is not changed by this transition. However, the disorder of the non-polar hydrocarbon chains increases dramatically after melting. Refer to page. Glucose Transport The tutorial shows how the glucose transporter molecule is structured with a spiral channel that allows the glucose molecules to passively navigate the channel and move through the membrane. Refer to page. Signal Transduction This animation illustrates how binding of a ligand to its receptor ultimately leads to the production of high levels of cAMP, an important second messenger in the signal transduction pathway. Refer to transport page. [ Refer to signaling in metabolism page ] Lactose Permease Transporter The Escherichia coli lactose permease is an example of secondary active transport (Campbell, p. 210). This enzyme is similar in structure to others in the major facilitator superfamily (MFS) of transporters. More than 1000 examples of MFS transporters have been identified in the genomes of bacteria, plants, and animals. Refer to page. Receptor Mediated Endocytosis Many macromolecules are taken into the cell by a process described as endocytosis. The macromolecules do not pass through the membrane directly to the cytoplasm but instead are taken up by the cell, processed by cell and then delivered to the cytoplasm. For many of the endocytic processes, the uptake of the molecule is very specific and is controlled by recognition of the molecule by a specific receptor on the surface of the cell. This process is called Receptor Mediated Endocytosis. Refer to page. ADP/ATP Exchange This tutorial explains ADP/ATP exchange, a form of Antiport transport, a mechanism where two different molecules facilitate each others pass through the membrane in opposite directions. Refer to page. DNA Replication The enzymatic and structural features of DNA replication in all organisms are very similar. These animations illustrate the processes involved in the replication of the Eschericia coli chromosome. The names of the DNA sites, enzymes, and other protein factors differ in viruses and in eukaryotic organisms, however, the basic features have been highly conserved in evolution. In E. coli, DNA replication begins at a single site on the chromosome called "OriC". Refer to page. DNA Transcription This tutorial shows the steps involved in transcribing DNA into mRNA. Transcription is illustrated using the E. coli lactose operon (lac) where transcription is regulated negatively by the lac repressor and positively by CAP-cAMP complex. Refer to page. RNA Translation - Protein Synthesis The biosynthesis of proteins involves translation of the information contained in the mRNA into a polypeptide sequence. Each triplet of bases in the mRNA encodes one amino acid. The translation is accomplished by the ribosome with the use of specialized RNA molecules called transfer RNA, or tRNA. The tRNA molecules bind to the mRNA and deliver the correct amino acid to the growing polypeptide chain. Refer to page. ATP Synthesis The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. Refer to page. Serine Protease The tutorial shows the chemical mechanism of serine proteases, enzymes that in the family differ only in their substrate specificity.The Trypsin for example is an extracellular protease that hydrolyzes peptide bonds during digestion in the small intestine. Metabolism Overview The four key pathways, glycolysis, the TCA cycle, electron transport, and ATP synthesis are outlined in yellow. Glucose that is brought into the cell via the glucose transporter can suffer two fates, oxidation or storage as glycogen. Oxidation occurs in glycolysis and the TCA cycle, releasing the carbon atoms in glucose as CO2. Note that oxygen is not used until the end of the electron transport chain. High energy electrons, symbolized as orange balls are carried on organic electron carriers to the electron transport chain. As these electrons move through the four complexes, protons are pumped from the mitochondrial matrix across the inner mitochondrial membrane. As these protons flow back through the membrane via ATP synthase, ATP is generated. Refer to page.   Tutorial Animations The following is the list of tutorial animations explaining various complex biological processes. Biological Membranes Biological membranes are dynamic structures composed of a diverse set of phospholipid molecules and proteins. This tutorial explores some of the properties of the membranes. Refer to page. Phase Transition Phospholipids bilayers undergo a cooperative phase transition or melting that is similar to protein denaturation. The high degree of cooperativity is due to extensive interactions between the non-polar acyl chains in the center of the bilayer. The overall structure of the lipid bilayer is not changed by this transition. However, the disorder of the non-polar hydrocarbon chains increases dramatically after melting. Refer to page. Glucose Transport The tutorial shows how the glucose transporter molecule is structured with a spiral channel that allows the glucose molecules to passively navigate the channel and move through the membrane. Refer to page. Signal Transduction This animation illustrates how binding of a ligand to its receptor ultimately leads to the production of high levels of cAMP, an important second messenger in the signal transduction pathway. Refer to transport page. [ Refer to signaling in metabolism page ] Lactose Permease Transporter The Escherichia coli lactose permease is an example of secondary active transport (Campbell, p. 210). This enzyme is similar in structure to others in the major facilitator superfamily (MFS) of transporters. More than 1000 examples of MFS transporters have been identified in the genomes of bacteria, plants, and animals. Refer to page. Receptor Mediated Endocytosis Many macromolecules are taken into the cell by a process described as endocytosis. The macromolecules do not pass through the membrane directly to the cytoplasm but instead are taken up by the cell, processed by cell and then delivered to the cytoplasm. For many of the endocytic processes, the uptake of the molecule is very specific and is controlled by recognition of the molecule by a specific receptor on the surface of the cell. This process is called Receptor Mediated Endocytosis. Refer to page. ADP/ATP Exchange This tutorial explains ADP/ATP exchange, a form of Antiport transport, a mechanism where two different molecules facilitate each others pass through the membrane in opposite directions. Refer to page. DNA Replication The enzymatic and structural features of DNA replication in all organisms are very similar. These animations illustrate the processes involved in the replication of the Eschericia coli chromosome. The names of the DNA sites, enzymes, and other protein factors differ in viruses and in eukaryotic organisms, however, the basic features have been highly conserved in evolution. In E. coli, DNA replication begins at a single site on the chromosome called "OriC". Refer to page. DNA Transcription This tutorial shows the steps involved in transcribing DNA into mRNA. Transcription is illustrated using the E. coli lactose operon (lac) where transcription is regulated negatively by the lac repressor and positively by CAP-cAMP complex. Refer to page. RNA Translation - Protein Synthesis The biosynthesis of proteins involves translation of the information contained in the mRNA into a polypeptide sequence. Each triplet of bases in the mRNA encodes one amino acid. The translation is accomplished by the ribosome with the use of specialized RNA molecules called transfer RNA, or tRNA. The tRNA molecules bind to the mRNA and deliver the correct amino acid to the growing polypeptide chain. Refer to page. ATP Synthesis The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. Refer to page.   Tutorial Animations The following is the list of tutorial animations explaining various complex biological processes. Biological Membranes Biological membranes are dynamic structures composed of a diverse set of phospholipid molecules and proteins. This tutorial explores some of the properties of the membranes. Refer to page. Phase Transition Phospholipids bilayers undergo a cooperative phase transition or melting that is similar to protein denaturation. The high degree of cooperativity is due to extensive interactions between the non-polar acyl chains in the center of the bilayer. The overall structure of the lipid bilayer is not changed by this transition. However, the disorder of the non-polar hydrocarbon chains increases dramatically after melting. Refer to page. Glucose Transport The tutorial shows how the glucose transporter molecule is structured with a spiral channel that allows the glucose molecules to passively navigate the channel and move through the membrane. Refer to page. Signal Transduction This animation illustrates how binding of a ligand to its receptor ultimately leads to the production of high levels of cAMP, an important second messenger in the signal transduction pathway. Refer to transport page. [ Refer to signaling in metabolism page ] Lactose Permease Transporter The Escherichia coli lactose permease is an example of secondary active transport (Campbell, p. 210). This enzyme is similar in structure to others in the major facilitator superfamily (MFS) of transporters. More than 1000 examples of MFS transporters have been identified in the genomes of bacteria, plants, and animals. Refer to page. Receptor Mediated Endocytosis Many macromolecules are taken into the cell by a process described as endocytosis. The macromolecules do not pass through the membrane directly to the cytoplasm but instead are taken up by the cell, processed by cell and then delivered to the cytoplasm. For many of the endocytic processes, the uptake of the molecule is very specific and is controlled by recognition of the molecule by a specific receptor on the surface of the cell. This process is called Receptor Mediated Endocytosis. Refer to page. ADP/ATP Exchange This tutorial explains ADP/ATP exchange, a form of Antiport transport, a mechanism where two different molecules facilitate each others pass through the membrane in opposite directions. Refer to page. DNA Replication The enzymatic and structural features of DNA replication in all organisms are very similar. These animations illustrate the processes involved in the replication of the Eschericia coli chromosome. The names of the DNA sites, enzymes, and other protein factors differ in viruses and in eukaryotic organisms, however, the basic features have been highly conserved in evolution. In E. coli, DNA replication begins at a single site on the chromosome called "OriC". Refer to page. DNA Transcription This tutorial shows the steps involved in transcribing DNA into mRNA. Transcription is illustrated using the E. coli lactose operon (lac) where transcription is regulated negatively by the lac repressor and positively by CAP-cAMP complex. Refer to page. RNA Translation - Protein Synthesis The biosynthesis of proteins involves translation of the information contained in the mRNA into a polypeptide sequence. Each triplet of bases in the mRNA encodes one amino acid. The translation is accomplished by the ribosome with the use of specialized RNA molecules called transfer RNA, or tRNA. The tRNA molecules bind to the mRNA and deliver the correct amino acid to the growing polypeptide chain. Refer to page. ATP Synthesis The synthesis of ATP utilizing the proton gradient as a source of energy is an example of direct coupling. The energy released as the protons flow through the enzyme cause a conformational change in the protein that causes the formation of ATP from bound ADP and inorganic phosphate. Refer to page. Serine Protease The tutorial shows the chemical mechanism of serine proteases, enzymes that in the family differ only in their substrate specificity.The Trypsin for example is an extracellular protease that hydrolyzes peptide bonds during digestion in the small intestine. Metabolism Overview The four key pathways, glycolysis, the TCA cycle, electron transport, and ATP synthesis are outlined in yellow. Glucose that is brought into the cell via the glucose transporter can suffer two fates, oxidation or storage as glycogen. Oxidation occurs in glycolysis and the TCA cycle, releasing the carbon atoms in glucose as CO2. Note that oxygen is not used until the end of the electron transport chain. High energy electrons, symbolized as orange balls are carried on organic electron carriers to the electron transport chain. As these electrons move through the four complexes, protons are pumped from the mitochondrial matrix across the inner mitochondrial membrane. As these protons flow back through the membrane via ATP synthase, ATP is generated. Refer to page. 