13. [u'gene', u'genes', u'trait']
   Definitions of Terms The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Allele One version of a gene.One version of a gene. Characteristics Heritable features, such as color and shape. Dihybrid Cross Cross between two organisms that are each heterozygous for two distinct genes. Dominant Describes a trait that is expressed (manifested as a phenotype) even when only one copy of the allele encoding the trait is present in the genotype. F1 Generation First filial offspring of the parents; the first generation of offspring. F2 Generation Second filial generation; offspring of the F1 generation. Gene Segment of DNA with instructions for protein synthesis. Genotype Alleles present in an organism. Heterozygous Having two different alleles for a trait present. Homozygous Both alleles present are identical. Law of Independent Assortment Each pair of alleles segregates separately of any other pair of alleles when gametes are formed. Law of Segregation States that the two alleles for each gene separate from each other when gametes form, so that each gamete contains one allele of each gene. Monohybrid Cross Cross between two organisms, each of which is heterozygous for the trait. P Generation Parental generation. Phenotype Physical or physiological characteristic present; also defined as the manifestation of the genes in an organism. Punnett Square Table method used to assess probabilities of outcomes in genetics. Principle of Dominance States that some traits are dominant and can mask recessive traits. Recessive Describes a trait that is masked by the dominant trait and is only expressed in the homozygous condition. Trait Form of a characteristic represented True-Breeding Describes organisms that when bred only have offspring with the same phenotype as the parents; the organism is homozygous at the genotypes of interest. Codominant A gene where two different alleles are both expressed in the heterozygous condition. Epistasis A single trait involving multiple genes where the effect of one gene can mask the effect of a different gene. Incomplete Dominant A gene where the dominant allele is not expressed as strongly in the heterozygote as in the homozygous dominant condition. Pleiotropy Single gene with multiple effects. Polygenic A single trait resulting from the interaction of multiple genes. Aneuploidy A condition where an abnormal number of chromosomes and genetic material migrates and attaches where it does not belong. Autosomal Describes a trait associated to alleles located on autosomes (non sex chromosomes). Karyotype Diagrammatic representation of an organism's genome. Pedigree Mapping or charting of a family history, showing the occurrence of a trait or characteristic. Segregation The two alleles for each trait separate when gametes form. Sex-Linked Describes a trait associated to alleles located on sex chromosomes, most commonly it is X-linked.   Unit Summary: Classical Genetics One of the common characteristics of living organisms is that they carry their genetic information in the DNA molecule. However, long before the molecular basis of inheritance was known, humans observed traits and often manipulated them when breeding plants or animals with desirable characteristics. In this unit you learned, through some of the groundbreaking experiments and observations of scientists such as Mendel and Morgan, the most common inheritance patterns. From simple dominance to polygenic inheritance, there are many ways the discrete units of inheritance Mendel called “genes” (without knowing precisely what they were), can combine and influence each other. However, not everything is determined by genes. Further studies have shown that the environment plays an important role in how those genes are or are not expressed. In the next unit, you will learn about how genetic information is inherited, expressed, and regulated at the molecular level. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Quiz Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.   Unit Summary: Classical Genetics One of the common characteristics of living organisms is that they carry their genetic information in the DNA molecule. However, long before the molecular basis of inheritance was known, humans observed traits and often manipulated them when breeding plants or animals with desirable characteristics. In this unit you learned, through some of the groundbreaking experiments and observations of scientists such as Mendel and Morgan, the most common inheritance patterns. From simple dominance to polygenic inheritance, there are many ways the discrete units of inheritance Mendel called “genes” (without knowing precisely what they were), can combine and influence each other. However, not everything is determined by genes. Further studies have shown that the environment plays an important role in how those genes are or are not expressed. In the next unit, you will learn about how genetic information is inherited, expressed, and regulated at the molecular level. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Quiz Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.   Dihybrid Crosses After his first experiment with crossing involving one trait, Mendel conducted experiments looking at the inheritance of two traits. For example, he crossed true-breeding plants that had yellow, round seeds with true-breeding plants that had green, wrinkled seeds. The resulting F1 generation plants all produced yellow, round seeds. The story became much more complicated when Mendel crossed the F1 generation plants with each other. This is called a dihybrid cross, as it is a cross between two individuals, both of whom are heterozygous for two traits. In the F2 generation, Mendel observed the original phenotypes (yellow/round, green/wrinkled) and two additional phenotypes: green/round and yellow/wrinkled. The four alleles had combined with each other, independently of each other. This outcome demonstrates the law of independent assortment. Mendel did not know of genes or alleles, he talked only of “units” specifying traits. Let’s look in detail at what happens with the genotypes of a dihybrid cross. As you remember from the Meiosis module, during meiosis I, after crossing-over, the chromosome pairs separate randomly. This means that Y and y will separate, as will R and r. But which goes to which gamete is random. So the Y allele in a chromosome can be associated with a chromosome containing the R allele or the r allele, and the R allele can be paired with a chromosome containing the Y allele or the y allele. Therefore, there are four possible gametes in a dihybrid cross. Fill in the following Punnett square for a dihybrid cross. There are exceptions to the law of independent assortment. We know now that peas have seven chromosomes, and Mendel happened to study traits coded by genes on different chromosomes, or on distant positions of the same chromosome, which assort independently due to frequent crossing-over. Genes that are very close together on a chromosome do not assort independently, and are said to be linked. The closer they are, the more probable that the gametes will receive parental combinations of alleles of those genes. All the genes in a chromosome are called a linkage group. Peas have seven linkage groups. An example of linked traits in humans is human hair and skin color. You may have noticed that red hair and fair skin are often inherited together. This is because the genes for these traits are very close to each other on the same chromosome, and they rarely recombine. Mendel published his results in 1866, but few read his work, and no one understood it entirely. When he became abbot of the monastery in 1871, he retired from science, and he died in 1884, unaware that his pioneering experiments would form the foundation for the study of modern genetics. After his first experiment with crossing involving one trait, Mendel conducted experiments looking at the inheritance of two traits. For example, he crossed true-breeding plants that had yellow, round seeds with true-breeding plants that had green, wrinkled seeds. The resulting F1 generation plants all produced yellow, round seeds. The story became much more complicated when Mendel crossed the F1 generation plants with each other. This is called a dihybrid cross, as it is a cross between two individuals, both of whom are heterozygous for two traits. In the F2 generation, Mendel observed the original phenotypes (yellow/round, green/wrinkled) and two additional phenotypes: green/round and yellow/wrinkled. The four alleles had combined with each other, independently of each other. This outcome demonstrates the law of independent assortment. Mendel did not know of genes or alleles, he talked only of “units” specifying traits. Let’s look in detail at what happens with the genotypes of a dihybrid cross. As you remember from the Meiosis module, during meiosis I, after crossing-over, the chromosome pairs separate randomly. This means that Y and y will separate, as will R and r. But which goes to which gamete is random. So the Y allele in a chromosome can be associated with a chromosome containing the R allele or the r allele, and the R allele can be paired with a chromosome containing the Y allele or the y allele. Therefore, there are four possible gametes in a dihybrid cross. Fill in the following Punnett square for a dihybrid cross. There are exceptions to the law of independent assortment. We know now that peas have seven chromosomes, and Mendel happened to study traits coded by genes on different chromosomes, or on distant positions of the same chromosome, which assort independently due to frequent crossing-over. Genes that are very close together on a chromosome do not assort independently, and are said to be linked. The closer they are, the more probable that the gametes will receive parental combinations of alleles of those genes. All the genes in a chromosome are called a linkage group. Peas have seven linkage groups. An example of linked traits in humans is human hair and skin color. You may have noticed that red hair and fair skin are often inherited together. This is because the genes for these traits are very close to each other on the same chromosome, and they rarely recombine. Mendel published his results in 1866, but few read his work, and no one understood it entirely. When he became abbot of the monastery in 1871, he retired from science, and he died in 1884, unaware that his pioneering experiments would form the foundation for the study of modern genetics.   Introduction to Classical Genetics Why do children look like their parents? How do rose growers get so many different colors of roses—pink, red, white, yellow, purple, peach, striped, and many more? How can there be different colored puppies within one litter? Genetic information (DNA) carried in the parents’ cells is passed on to the next generation. This genetic information helps determine many of the characteristics of the offspring. In people, for instance, DNA is responsible for a child’s height and skin pigmentation. It also helps determine the overall health of the child by regulating many physiological characteristics such as the condition of the heart and lungs, as well as brain and blood chemistry. How much of our physiological makeup is determined by genetics, and how much is determined by other factors such as personal choice and environment? This question is a source of ongoing debate in both scientific and philosophical communities. Environmental factors can influence our DNA, and our DNA can influence how we react to environmental factors. If ever we are able to answer this question, the answer will likely be complex and nuanced. In this unit, we will focus on a direct link between genetic information and visible traits. This will allow us to discuss how genetic information can be passed from one generation to the next and how these genes affect the later generation. We will focus on simple examples of traits that are clearly visible and have a direct correlation to genetics.   Introduction to Classical Genetics Why do children look like their parents? How do rose growers get so many different colors of roses — pink, red, white, yellow, purple, peach, striped, and many more? How can there be different-colored puppies within one litter? Inheritance is the way that organisms pass traits to their offspring. Because offspring possess some (or all) of the genetic information from their parents, they also share many traits in common with their parents. In the Cell Division unit, you learned that cells pass on a complete set of genetic information (contained in the DNA), which is transmitted from parent cells to daughter cells. This genetic information helps determine many of the characteristics of the offspring. In humans, for instance, DNA is responsible for a child’s height and skin pigmentation. It also helps determine the overall health of the child by regulating many physiological characteristics, such as the condition of the heart and lungs, as well as brain and blood chemistry. How much of our physiological makeup is determined by genetics, and how much is determined by other factors, such as personal choice and environment? This question is a source of ongoing debate in both scientific and philosophical communities. Environmental factors can influence our DNA, and our DNA can influence how we react to environmental factors. If we are ever able to answer this question, the answer will likely be complex. In this unit, you will focus on the direct links between genetic information and visible traits. This will help you to learn how genetic information can be passed from one generation to the next and how these genes affect the later generation. We will introduce simple examples of traits that are clearly visible and have a direct correlation to genetics.   Mendel and his Peas: The Dawn of Genetics By U.S. National Library of Medicine (Gregor Mendel) Public Domain Gregor Mendel was a nineteenth-century Augustinian monk in Bohemia, a country in Europe that is now part of the Czech Republic. In 1853, Mendel left the monastery for two years to study at the University of Vienna, where he learned about mathematics and botany. When he returned to the monastery, he began investigating how plants passed on their characteristics to their offspring. He was conducting this research only a few years before Charles Darwin published On the Origin of Species. Mendel set out to understand inheritance by breeding pea plants. By collecting peas from pods produced after fertilizing two parent pea plants, Mendel could then grow those peas into new pea plants and see how these offspring resemble or differ from the parent plants. The heritable characteristics that Mendel studied included seed color and shape, pod color and shape, flower color and position, and stem length. Each of the traits that Mendel studied occurs only in two forms, or phenotypes. For instance, pea flower color is a trait that can exhibit either the purple phenotype or the white phenotype. Mendel used so-called true-breeding plants, which means that they always looked like their progenitors (selected over several years). He chose two varieties: one that always had purple flowers, and one that always had white flowers. So if we know the phenotype, and we know that those two varieties would always result in same-color flowers, we can deduce that all individuals (plants) in that population (purple or white) have the same alleles for the gene that determines flower color. Next, Mendel crossed the purple variety with the white variety. He manipulated his plants so he could control which plant pollinated which. In plants, pollen is the male gamete, landing on the flower to fuse with the ovule—the female gamete. The resulting zygote will give rise to the seed, or embryo. When Mendel crossed purple and white flowers, the first generation of plants, which he designated “F1,” were all purple. Somehow, purple was “stronger,” or dominant over the white. So if the alleles of the purple flowers were symbolized by “B," then the allele corresponding to white flowers was “weaker” and is symbolized by “b.” If the genotype of the parent purple flower is BB, then the genotype of the parent white plant will be bb. Let’s see what happened during that first cross. You will use a tool called a Punnett square, which graphically shows the possible combinations of the gametes of the parents. In a Punnett square, you place the possible gametes from each parent along the top and left side of the square. What you are representing here is the Law of Segregation: during meiosis I, the chromosome pair separates, resulting in haploid gametes. Each gamete will have only one allele. Then you combine the possible gametes with each other to see all possible combinations, as shown in this example. Punnett Square The Punnett Square As you can see, 100 percent of the offspring have the Bb genotype, but 100 percent also show the purple phenotype. You might expect the offspring to show a phenotype that somehow blends the parental phenotypes. Sometimes this happens, but in the case of these pea plants' flower color, the purple allele (B) is dominant over the white allele (b). Stated another way, the white allele (b) is recessive to the purple allele (B). In many, but not all, cases it is possible to pinpoint a phenotype to one allele. Remember, alleles are variants of genes, and genes code for proteins. In this example, the purple color may be due to an enzyme that produces a purple pigment. If the allele codes for a mutated enzyme that does not perform as expected, the resulting flower would be white. A flower with BB or Bb genotype has the normal enzyme — purple pigment is produced — and even the heterozygous flower, which has only one allele for the normal enzyme, produces enough pigment for the flower to be purple. The bb flower, on the other hand, has no functioning enzyme, so the flower remains white. There are some easily observable human traits that follow the Mendelian inheritance pattern, showing a dominant and a recessive allele. Examples include unattached earlobes (dominant) versus attached earlobes (recessive). The widow’s peak hairline, a cleft chin, rolling tongue, and hitchhiker’s thumb are others. Does the ability to roll your tongue make you more fit for survival? Not really! One common misconception is that dominant traits are more favorable from an evolutionary point of view. Another is that dominant traits are more common. We cannot stress enough that traits, and particularly human traits, are determined by complex interactions between genes and environment. In the early days of genetics, simple observable traits were used to describe inheritance patterns. Once the molecular basis of inheritance was established, scientists could tackle more complex interactions. You will learn more about this in the Molecular Genetics unit. The Punnett Square   Heredity: Summary Summary For centuries, humans observed traits in themselves and in the animals and plants surrounding them. They realized that they were passed on from one generation to another, although not in a completely unequivocal way. Breeders of plants and animals figured out ways to enhance their traits by selecting individuals with the desired characteristics and crossing them with each other. But it was not until the experiments of Gregor Mendel in the nineteenth century that patterns of inheritance started to become clearer. Based on a simple model, the pea plant, with easily observable phenotypes governing flower colors, seed shape, and so on, he proposed that hereditary information was passed along in discrete units he called genes (at that time DNA was not known), and that genes could have two alternatives or alleles. According to Mendel’s laws, alleles segregate during sexual reproduction, and combine independently from each other. We know now that genes are DNA sequences found in chromosomes, and the segregation is due to the process of meiosis you have already learned about. Mendel also coined the terms dominant and recessive to describe the expression of only one form of the gene when both are present in the same organism (that is, when an organism is heterozygous for the gene). Key Terms allele characteristics dihybrid cross dominant F1 generation F2 generation gene genotype heterozygous homozygous law of independent assortment law of segregation monohybrid cross P generation phenotype Punnett square principle of dominance recessive trait true-breeding Quiz For centuries, humans observed traits in themselves and in the animals and plants surrounding them. They realized that they were passed on from one generation to another, although not in a completely unequivocal way. Breeders of plants and animals figured out ways to enhance their traits by selecting individuals with the desired characteristics and crossing them with each other. But it was not until the experiments of Gregor Mendel in the nineteenth century that patterns of inheritance started to become clearer. Based on a simple model, the pea plant, with easily observable phenotypes governing flower colors, seed shape, and so on, he proposed that hereditary information was passed along in discrete units he called genes (at that time DNA was not known), and that genes could have two alternatives or alleles. According to Mendel’s laws, alleles segregate during sexual reproduction, and combine independently from each other. We know now that genes are DNA sequences found in chromosomes, and the segregation is due to the process of meiosis you have already learned about. Mendel also coined the terms dominant and recessive to describe the expression of only one form of the gene when both are present in the same organism (that is, when an organism is heterozygous for the gene). allele characteristics dihybrid cross dominant F1 generation F2 generation gene genotype heterozygous homozygous law of independent assortment law of segregation monohybrid cross P generation phenotype Punnett square principle of dominance recessive trait true-breeding   Heredity: Summary Summary For centuries, humans observed traits in themselves and in the animals and plants surrounding them. They realized that they were passed on from one generation to another, although not in a completely unequivocal way. Breeders of plants and animals figured out ways to enhance their traits by selecting individuals with the desired characteristics and crossing them with each other. But it was not until the experiments of Gregor Mendel in the nineteenth century that patterns of inheritance started to become clearer. Based on a simple model, the pea plant, with easily observable phenotypes governing flower colors, seed shape, and so on, he proposed that hereditary information was passed along in discrete units he called genes (at that time DNA was not known), and that genes could have two alternatives or alleles. According to Mendel’s laws, alleles segregate during sexual reproduction, and combine independently from each other. We know now that genes are DNA sequences found in chromosomes, and the segregation is due to the process of meiosis you have already learned about. Mendel also coined the terms dominant and recessive to describe the expression of only one form of the gene when both are present in the same organism (that is, when an organism is heterozygous for the gene). Key Terms allele characteristics dihybrid cross dominant F1 generation F2 generation gene genotype heterozygous homozygous law of independent assortment law of segregation monohybrid cross P generation phenotype Punnett square principle of dominance recessive trait true-breeding Quiz For centuries, humans observed traits in themselves and in the animals and plants surrounding them. They realized that they were passed on from one generation to another, although not in a completely unequivocal way. Breeders of plants and animals figured out ways to enhance their traits by selecting individuals with the desired characteristics and crossing them with each other. But it was not until the experiments of Gregor Mendel in the nineteenth century that patterns of inheritance started to become clearer. Based on a simple model, the pea plant, with easily observable phenotypes governing flower colors, seed shape, and so on, he proposed that hereditary information was passed along in discrete units he called genes (at that time DNA was not known), and that genes could have two alternatives or alleles. According to Mendel’s laws, alleles segregate during sexual reproduction, and combine independently from each other. We know now that genes are DNA sequences found in chromosomes, and the segregation is due to the process of meiosis you have already learned about. Mendel also coined the terms dominant and recessive to describe the expression of only one form of the gene when both are present in the same organism (that is, when an organism is heterozygous for the gene). allele characteristics dihybrid cross dominant F1 generation F2 generation gene genotype heterozygous homozygous law of independent assortment law of segregation monohybrid cross P generation phenotype Punnett square principle of dominance recessive trait true-breeding   Monohybrid Crosses Mendel’s next experiment involved crossing the heterozygous purple-flowered offspring that resulted from his first cross. The crossing of two individuals heterozygous for a single gene is called a monohybrid cross. Let’s see what happened. The table below represents a Punnett square — like the one seen on the previous page — used to describe the results of Mendel’s first experimental set of pea plants, designated F1. The gametes from the F1 generation, Bb, are filled in at the top and on the sides. Fill in the center of the Punnett square to see the possible offspring genotypes and phenotypes for the next generation, F2. Albinism is a recessive disorder related to the deficiency of an enzyme responsible for the synthesis of the pigment melanin. Only homozygous recessive individuals present the albino phenotype. By Muntuwandi (Albino male) CC-BY-SA-3.0 Mendel’s next experiment involved crossing the heterozygous purple-flowered offspring that resulted from his first cross. The crossing of two individuals heterozygous for a single gene is called a monohybrid cross. Let’s see what happened. The table below represents a Punnett square — like the one seen on the previous page — used to describe the results of Mendel’s first experimental set of pea plants, designated F1. The gametes from the F1 generation, Bb, are filled in at the top and on the sides. Fill in the center of the Punnett square to see the possible offspring genotypes and phenotypes for the next generation, F2. Albinism is a recessive disorder related to the deficiency of an enzyme responsible for the synthesis of the pigment melanin. Only homozygous recessive individuals present the albino phenotype. By Muntuwandi (Albino male) CC-BY-SA-3.0   Introduction to Human Inheritance There are around seven billion people on our planet, and everybody looks at least a little different from everyone else. Siblings are different from each other, and even identical twins—who are genetically identical—can show different traits over time. However, when we look at families over several generations, it becomes obvious that certain traits appear generation after generation. How can this extraordinary variability be explained? In the previous module you learned about the inheritance patterns (Mendelian and non-Mendelian) that were studied using models such as peas, snapdragons, and dogs. Another organism that is often used is the fruit fly Drosophila. Common to these organisms is that they are relatively easy to breed and cross under controlled conditions. They also have a relatively short lifespan, which allows the tracking of traits for many generations. In the case of humans, genetic analysis is much more complicated. We live under a variety of conditions, so the environmental influences are much stronger. Humans choose their mates freely, families are usually smaller, and our lifespan is the same as that of the geneticists. Much information about transmission of human traits comes from the study of pedigrees, a chart of genetic connections similar to a family tree. In this module, you’ll learn how to read pedigrees. You’ll also look at the different patterns and factors that affect human inheritance.   Human Inheritance: Summary Summary This module explored the application of inheritance patterns to human characteristics and hereditary disorders. Many human conditions follow the Mendelian pattern, with a recessive allele being responsible for the diseased phenotype most of the time. In other cases, there may be a linkage of genes to a sex chromosome, most commonly the X chromosome. The traits for those genes are called sex-linked traits, and they were originally described by Morgan in his classical fruit fly experiments. Some genetic disorders are caused by errors in the meiotic process leading to a lack of separation of chromosome pairs, called nondisjunction. These disorders can be visualized by using karyotypes. Pedigrees or family trees are very useful to trace genetic traits in families. Following the trail of a particular disorder in a pedigree can clarify what its inheritance pattern is, and can provide useful information for genetic counseling. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. aneuploidy autosomal karyotype pedigree segregation sex-linked Quiz This module explored the application of inheritance patterns to human characteristics and hereditary disorders. Many human conditions follow the Mendelian pattern, with a recessive allele being responsible for the diseased phenotype most of the time. In other cases, there may be a linkage of genes to a sex chromosome, most commonly the X chromosome. The traits for those genes are called sex-linked traits, and they were originally described by Morgan in his classical fruit fly experiments. Some genetic disorders are caused by errors in the meiotic process leading to a lack of separation of chromosome pairs, called nondisjunction. These disorders can be visualized by using karyotypes. Pedigrees or family trees are very useful to trace genetic traits in families. Following the trail of a particular disorder in a pedigree can clarify what its inheritance pattern is, and can provide useful information for genetic counseling. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. aneuploidy autosomal karyotype pedigree segregation sex-linked   Introduction to Human Inheritance There are around 7 billion people on our planet, and everybody looks at least a little different from everyone else. Siblings are different from each other, and even identical twins—who are genetically identical—can show different traits over time. However, when we look at families over several generations, it becomes obvious that certain traits appear generation after generation. How can this extraordinary variability be explained? In the previous module you learned about the inheritance patterns (Mendelian and non-Mendelian) that were studied using models such as peas, snapdragons, or even dogs. Another organism that is often used is the fruit fly Drosophila. Common to these organisms is that the-y are relatively easy to breed and cross under controlled conditions. They also have a relatively short lifespan, which allows the tracking of traits for many generations. In the case of humans, genetic analysis is much more complicated. We live under a variety of conditions, so the environmental influences are much stronger. Humans choose their mates freely, families are usually smaller, and our lifespan is the same as the geneticists’. Much information about transmission of human traits comes from the study of pedigrees, a chart of genetic connections similar to a family tree. In this module, we’ll learn how to read pedigrees. We’ll also look at the different patterns and factors that affect human inheritance.   Patterns of Inheritance Many human traits are clear-cut and easy to test. These include the ability to bend back the thumb nearly 90 degrees (known as “hitchhiker’s thumb”), to roll the tongue into a U-shape, and to taste a bitter chemical called phenylthiocarbamide. While these traits do not have considerable implications on human health and species survival, many others do. Some of them are related to disorders such as sickle cell anemia, hemophilia, Tay-Sachs disease, and Down syndrome, to name a few. Left, a tongue-rolling girl. Tongue rolling is a dominant trait that follows Mendelian inheritance. By Gideon Tsang (Rolled tongue flikr) CC BY-SA 2.0 Right: Queen Victoria and the royal family. Hemophilia, a blood clotting disorder transmitted by sex-linked inheritance, affected 18 of Queen Victoria’s 69 descendants. By M.W. Ridley (Queen Victoria and Royal Family) Public Domain Some human traits (like the tongue-rolling ability) follow Mendelian patterns, which means they are controlled by a single gene. One of the alleles is dominant, and the other is recessive. Human genetic disorders following a Mendelian pattern are the least common. Most of those tend to be recessive, meaning that the defective allele causing the disorder is recessive. That means only homozygous recessive individuals will show the disorder. The heterozygotes will be carriers, so while they carry the defective allele (and sometimes even express it, as in the sickle cell trait), they phenotypically do not present the full disorder. Other disorders may be dominant, wherein the defective allele causing the disorder is dominant. In this case, the presence of only one allele is enough to provoke the appearance of the disorder, and only homozygous recessive individuals show the healthy phenotype. As you remember from the Meiosis module, of the 23 pairs of chromosomes found in a human somatic cell, 22 are autosomes, and the 23rd pair are sex chromosomes. Sex chromosomes are of two types: X and Y. Males have one X and one Y chromosome (XY), and females have two copies of the X chromosome (XX). If the gene responsible for the disorder is present on the autosomes, it is called an autosomal disorder. The term “autosomal” refers to chromosomes that are not sex determining. On the other hand, if the responsible gene is present on a sex chromosome, it is called a sex-linked disorder. Due to the fact that the male Y chromosome is very small and contains only genes related to sex determination, sex-linked disorders are due to defective alleles on the X chromosome. The following table shows the inheritance patterns of some human genetic disorders and abnormalities. Pattern Disorder Main symptoms Mendelian: autosomal dominant Huntington’s disease; Progeria Degeneration of the nervous system; Premature aging Mendelian: autosomal recessive Cystic fibrosis; Sickle cell anemia Abnormal glandular secretions provoking lung and digestive dysfunction; Anemia causing effects on the whole body Sex-linked Hemophilia; Red-green color blindness Inadequate blood clotting; Inability to distinguish red from green Changes in chromosome number Down syndrome; Klinefelter syndrome; Turner syndrome Mental impairment, heart defects; Sterility, mild mental impairment; Sterility, abnormal ovaries Changes in chromosome structure Chronic myelogenous; Leukemia Overexpression of white blood cells; Organ dysfunction Folk singer Woodie Guthrie suffered from Huntington's disease, which is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by a defective allele of the gene coding for a protein called huntingtin. The accumulation of the defective huntingtin results in problems with muscle coordination and later psychiatric issues and dementia. By Al Aumuller, New York World-Telegram and the Sun (Woody Guthrie) Public Domain   Pedigrees Pedigrees are maps that can be used to trace genetic traits through generations of individuals. Pedigrees use the following symbols: Males are symbolized by squares. Females are symbolized by circles. Mated individuals are connected by a horizontal line, and children are connected to them by vertical branches extending down from the line. Individuals expressing a genetic trait are shaded; individuals not expressing the trait are not shaded. Pedigrees can be used to determine if the trait being studied is dominant, recessive, or X-linked. A trait is recessive if a child anywhere in the family has the trait and both parents do not. This must be the case because if the child has the trait and the parents do not, the only possible genotype option is: It would not be possible for an affected individual to show a dominant trait that was not expressed in his or her parents, because this sets up an impossible situation where the child would have an allele that could not come from either parent: If there is no case where a child expresses the trait but neither parent does, then the pedigree is likely to be dominant. In a real-world situation, researchers would need to look at hundreds of individuals to be sure that this conclusion is statistically significant. But for the purposes of this activity, you will look at only a few individuals. A trait that is significantly more common in males than females is likely to be X-linked. Again, in a real-world situation a much larger sample size would be needed to be sure of these conclusions. The X-linked traits used here are also recessive, so you will notice that they show both characteristics of being X-linked (mostly males) and characteristics of being recessive (child demonstrating a trait that neither parent has). Pedigrees can also be used to determine the genotype of individuals. Not all individuals can be identified, however; so it is important to know when the genotype is not identifiable. To determine the genotypes of individuals, one must first determine if the trait is dominant, recessive, or X-linked. Answer the following questions with reference to the following pedigree. Note: Choice "A_" in the questions below indicates that the second allele cannot be determined from the pedigree.   Sex-Linked Traits In humans, determination of sex is dependent on a special pair of chromosomes called the sex chromosomes. The other 22 pairs are called autosomes. There are two types of sex chromosomes — X and Y. The X chromosome is large and carries many genes unrelated to sex. The Y chromosome, on the other hand, is much smaller and carries only the genes containing the instructions for “maleness,” which are molecular signals that instruct the fetal gonads (sex organs) to develop as testes and not ovaries. In the absence of the Y chromosome, a fetus develops as female. Females have two copies of the X chromosome (XX), while males carry one X and one Y (XY). When gametes are formed, females will have only gametes that contain the X chromosome; males will have some gametes with X and others with Y. For a male baby, a Y gamete from the father has to meet the mother’s gamete. So the determination of a baby’s sex depends on which gamete the father contributes. About one out of every ten men is color-blind. People who are color-blind are unable to distinguish between certain colors, especially green and red. On the other hand, only about one out of every 200 women is color-blind. Why is there such a drastic difference between the sexes? In 1910, an American geneticist named Thomas Hunt Morgan made an observation that began to shed some light on this question. One morning, when peering through a hand lens at a male fruit fly, he noticed that it didn’t look right. Instead of having the normally brilliant red eyes of wild-type Drosophila melanogaster, this fly had white eyes. Morgan was particularly interested in how traits were inherited and distributed in developing organisms, and he wondered what caused this fly's eyes to deviate from the norm. A fruitfly (Drosophila melanogaster) displaying the normal red-eyed phenotype. By André Karwath (Drosophila melanogaster - side) CC-BY-SA-2.5 He bred the white-eyed male with several true-bred, red-eyed females and obtained all red-eyed flies in the first generation. (Remember, true-bred organisms have a homozygous genotype.) Morgan did crosses between the F1 hybrids, and he observed the following: 75 percent of the offspring were red-eyed, and 25 percent were white-eyed. So far, the results supported the Mendelian pattern of 3:1. But then he noticed something odd: all of the white-eyed flies were male. Morgan wondered why the white-eye trait was associated with the male sex. In Morgan’s time, the idea that an additional pair of chromosomes was responsible for sex determination had just emerged. There were two plausible possibilities: either the trait was somehow linked to the sex chromosome, or the white-eyed trait was lethal for females, meaning that females with the phenotype would not develop past the egg stage. Morgan conducted a series of crosses using the F2 generation, and obtained some white-eyed females also, showing that the white-eyed characteristic was not lethal for females. In a famous subsequent experiment, Morgan crossed white-eyed females with white-eyed males, obtaining only white-eyed offspring. This cross confirmed that the eye color trait was linked to the female sex chromosome. Because of this, the males are what is called hemizygous for this trait: they have only one allele present, which is in the X chromosome. The Y chromosome does not have the same genes as the X chromosome. Males have no heterozygous option: they either have the dominant allele (red-eyed) or the recessive allele (white-eyed). Below is a Punnett square of a cross between two fruit flies. The phenotypes of the offspring and the parents are given. Using what you know about the genotypes for eye color in fruit flies and the phenotype information in the chart below, determine which chromosome allele (X+ , Xw, or Y) belongs in boxes I, II, III, or IV. Boxes I and II represent the genotype of the female parent, and boxes III and IV represent the genotype of the male parent. The trait of white eyes in fruit flies is a sex-linked trait. It is located on a sex chromosome, so it occurs at different rates in males and females. Because it is located on the X chromosome, it is more specifically called an X-linked gene. In humans, the trait of color blindness results from a gene on the X chromosome. So do some more serious diseases, including Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which causes progressive muscle weakness. People with this disorder rarely live past the age of 25. A gene on the X chromosome codes for a muscle protein that is missing in people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy.   Unit Summary: Classical Genetics Summary One of the common characteristics of living organisms is that they carry their genetic information in the DNA molecule. However, long before the molecular basis of inheritance was known, humans observed traits and often manipulated them when breeding plants or animals with desirable characteristics. In this unit you learned, through some of the groundbreaking experiments and observations of scientists such as Mendel and Morgan, the most common inheritance patterns. From simple dominance to polygenic inheritance, there are many ways the discrete units of inheritance Mendel called “genes” (without knowing precisely what they were), can combine and influence each other. However, not everything is determined by genes. Further studies have shown that the environment plays an important role in how those genes are or are not expressed. In the next unit, you will learn about how the genetic information is inherited, expressed, and regulated at the molecular level. Quiz One of the common characteristics of living organisms is that they carry their genetic information in the DNA molecule. However, long before the molecular basis of inheritance was known, humans observed traits and often manipulated them when breeding plants or animals with desirable characteristics. In this unit you learned, through some of the groundbreaking experiments and observations of scientists such as Mendel and Morgan, the most common inheritance patterns. From simple dominance to polygenic inheritance, there are many ways the discrete units of inheritance Mendel called “genes” (without knowing precisely what they were), can combine and influence each other. However, not everything is determined by genes. Further studies have shown that the environment plays an important role in how those genes are or are not expressed. In the next unit, you will learn about how the genetic information is inherited, expressed, and regulated at the molecular level.   Incomplete Dominance Gregor Mendel’s experiments that you studied earlier involve simple dominance, in which the offspring will show a trait from either one parent or the other, not a blend of those traits. In a case of simple dominance, crossing a red flower and a white one will produce a red flower, not a pink flower. If you think about traits that children inherit from their parents, you will realize that this does not always happen. Continued genetic research has revealed that inheritance is usually more complicated than simple dominance. Some genes follow Mendelian patterns of inheritance, but many are governed instead by non-Mendelian inheritance. Mendel himself realized this when he looked at species and characteristics beyond the scope of his research. For example, although the cross of a true-bred purple-flowered pea plant with a true-bred white-flowered pea plant will result in purple flowers, the cross of true-bred red flower and true-bred white flower snapdragons will result in offspring with pink flowers. If the pink snapdragons are crossed with each other, pink, red, and white flowers will appear in a 2:1:1 ratio, respectively. How can this happen? Snapdragons produce flowers with a variety of different colors. By Off2riorob (talk) (Snapdragons) CC-BY-3.0 In this inheritance pattern, called incomplete dominance, the heterozygous genotype exhibits an intermediate phenotype. In the snapdragon example, the intermediate phenotype is pink. What is the difference between the purple heterozygotes of the pea flowers and the pink heterozygotes of the snapdragon flowers? Think about what an allele is: a variation of a gene containing the recipe for a protein. In the flower color example, this protein could be an enzyme involved in the synthesis of a pigment. In the case of the pea plant, the presence of a single allele in the heterozygous plant was enough to provide all the pigment needed to give the dominant purple color. However, in the case of the snapdragon, the presence of only one allele does not provide enough pigment to give the flower a fully red hue—but there is enough pigment to tint it partially, thus providing the pink color of the heterozygous flower. The following Punnett square represents incomplete dominance. Fill in the genotypes and the corresponding phenotypes for the offspring of these parents, both of which have a genotype of Rr. Gregor Mendel’s experiments that you studied earlier involve simple dominance, in which the offspring will show a trait from either one parent or the other, not a blend of those traits. In a case of simple dominance, crossing a red flower and a white one will produce a red flower, not a pink flower. If you think about traits that children inherit from their parents, you will realize that this does not always happen. Continued genetic research has revealed that inheritance is usually more complicated than simple dominance. Some genes follow Mendelian patterns of inheritance, but many are governed instead by non-Mendelian inheritance. Mendel himself realized this when he looked at species and characteristics beyond the scope of his research. For example, although the cross of a true-bred purple-flowered pea plant with a true-bred white-flowered pea plant will result in purple flowers, the cross of true-bred red flower and true-bred white flower snapdragons will result in offspring with pink flowers. If the pink snapdragons are crossed with each other, pink, red, and white flowers will appear in a 2:1:1 ratio, respectively. How can this happen? Snapdragons produce flowers with a variety of different colors. By Off2riorob (talk) (Snapdragons) CC-BY-3.0 In this inheritance pattern, called incomplete dominance, the heterozygous genotype exhibits an intermediate phenotype. In the snapdragon example, the intermediate phenotype is pink. What is the difference between the purple heterozygotes of the pea flowers and the pink heterozygotes of the snapdragon flowers? Think about what an allele is: a variation of a gene containing the recipe for a protein. In the flower color example, this protein could be an enzyme involved in the synthesis of a pigment. In the case of the pea plant, the presence of a single allele in the heterozygous plant was enough to provide all the pigment needed to give the dominant purple color. However, in the case of the snapdragon, the presence of only one allele does not provide enough pigment to give the flower a fully red hue—but there is enough pigment to tint it partially, thus providing the pink color of the heterozygous flower. The following Punnett square represents incomplete dominance. Fill in the genotypes and the corresponding phenotypes for the offspring of these parents, both of which have a genotype of Rr.   Polygenic Inheritance Some traits, such as skin color and height, are determined by multiple genes. In humans, skin color is determined by at least three different genes, and probably more. This concept is called polygenic inheritance. Variation along a continuum often indicates that a trait has polygenic inheritance. Most visible traits are polygenic, and their genetic patterns are rather complicated. In some instances the polygenic effect is rather straightforward. This situation is called epistasis. In epistasis: The products of two or more genes result in a certain phenotype. The expression of one gene masks or changes the expected phenotype of one or more other genes. For instance, in Labrador retrievers, the allele for black fur color (B) is dominant with regard to the allele for brown (“chocolate”) fur color (b). However, there are also yellow Labs. The coats of yellow labs are created through epistasis. Another gene, E/e, is in play. The reason for this distinction is an interaction between the two genes. The B gene is involved in the synthesis of the pigment melanin: B results in a black, and b in a brown color. The E gene is related to melanin deposition in the fur: E causes melanin to be deposited, and e suppresses melanin deposits. Being homozygous for e — that is, having the ee genotype (no melanin deposition) — results in fur with neither brown nor black pigment, which appears yellow, independent of the black or chocolate allele (B or b). The Punnett square below represents a dihybrid cross for Labrador retrievers, similar to the one that you saw in the previous module. Based on the given genotype of the offspring and that Labradors exhibit polygenic inheritance, drag the corresponding phenotype that goes with each genotype. Pleiotropy Many single genes can have numerous different effects, rather than just two. This capability is called pleiotropy. In the 1930s, for instance, researchers found a gene in chickens that leads most obviously to feathers that curl out, but that also (and less visibly) leads to increased metabolism, blood flow, body temperature, and digestive capacity, as well as fewer eggs laid. This pleiotropic gene is called the “frizzle” gene because of its effect on the appearance of the chickens. Chicken expressing the frizzle gene. By Just chaos (Leghorn Frizzle Chicken) CC-BY-2.0 Another gene known to have pleiotropic effects in humans is fibrillin-1, which codes for a connective tissue protein. Marfan syndrome is caused by mutations in the fibrillin-1 gene. People with Marfan syndrome are usually tall and thin with long arms and legs, and they are at risk for heart disease and eye problems. The symptoms can be treated individually, and people with Marfan syndrome may have normal life spans. Some traits, such as skin color and height, are determined by multiple genes. In humans, skin color is determined by at least three different genes, and probably more. This concept is called polygenic inheritance. Variation along a continuum often indicates that a trait has polygenic inheritance. Most visible traits are polygenic, and their genetic patterns are rather complicated. In some instances the polygenic effect is rather straightforward. This situation is called epistasis. In epistasis: The products of two or more genes result in a certain phenotype. The expression of one gene masks or changes the expected phenotype of one or more other genes. For instance, in Labrador retrievers, the allele for black fur color (B) is dominant with regard to the allele for brown (“chocolate”) fur color (b). However, there are also yellow Labs. The coats of yellow labs are created through epistasis. Another gene, E/e, is in play. The reason for this distinction is an interaction between the two genes. The B gene is involved in the synthesis of the pigment melanin: B results in a black, and b in a brown color. The E gene is related to melanin deposition in the fur: E causes melanin to be deposited, and e suppresses melanin deposits. Being homozygous for e — that is, having the ee genotype (no melanin deposition) — results in fur with neither brown nor black pigment, which appears yellow, independent of the black or chocolate allele (B or b). The Punnett square below represents a dihybrid cross for Labrador retrievers, similar to the one that you saw in the previous module. Based on the given genotype of the offspring and that Labradors exhibit polygenic inheritance, drag the corresponding phenotype that goes with each genotype. Pleiotropy Many single genes can have numerous different effects, rather than just two. This capability is called pleiotropy. In the 1930s, for instance, researchers found a gene in chickens that leads most obviously to feathers that curl out, but that also (and less visibly) leads to increased metabolism, blood flow, body temperature, and digestive capacity, as well as fewer eggs laid. This pleiotropic gene is called the “frizzle” gene because of its effect on the appearance of the chickens. Chicken expressing the frizzle gene. By Just chaos (Leghorn Frizzle Chicken) CC-BY-2.0 Another gene known to have pleiotropic effects in humans is fibrillin-1, which codes for a connective tissue protein. Marfan syndrome is caused by mutations in the fibrillin-1 gene. People with Marfan syndrome are usually tall and thin with long arms and legs, and they are at risk for heart disease and eye problems. The symptoms can be treated individually, and people with Marfan syndrome may have normal life spans. Many single genes can have numerous different effects, rather than just two. This capability is called pleiotropy. In the 1930s, for instance, researchers found a gene in chickens that leads most obviously to feathers that curl out, but that also (and less visibly) leads to increased metabolism, blood flow, body temperature, and digestive capacity, as well as fewer eggs laid. This pleiotropic gene is called the “frizzle” gene because of its effect on the appearance of the chickens. Chicken expressing the frizzle gene. By Just chaos (Leghorn Frizzle Chicken) CC-BY-2.0 Another gene known to have pleiotropic effects in humans is fibrillin-1, which codes for a connective tissue protein. Marfan syndrome is caused by mutations in the fibrillin-1 gene. People with Marfan syndrome are usually tall and thin with long arms and legs, and they are at risk for heart disease and eye problems. The symptoms can be treated individually, and people with Marfan syndrome may have normal life spans.   Application Spotlight: Effect of the Environment Characteristics that are influenced by environmental as well as genetic factors are called multifactorial. The idea of “nature versus nurture” — in other words, the relative influence of genetics versus environmental factors — has been and still is debated. Just looking at the genes of a given organism will not determine how that organism will develop and act. Even identical twins will show different characteristics, depending on the environment in which they live. Everyone is a product of their environment as well as their genetics. Even when influenced by the environment, phenotypes have a normal range of expression. For instance, human height varies based on nutrition and genetics, but not many people are shorter than 4½ feet or taller than 7 feet. The range of phenotypic possibilities is called the norm of reaction. Hydrangeas, for example, may be blue, pink, or purple, but they are never naturally orange. Hydrangeas are blue in acidic soil with available aluminum, and they are pink in alkaline soil without available aluminum. Some human characteristics have a narrow norm of reaction, such as blood type. Others have a wide norm of reaction, such as the number of blood cells in humans, which varies depending on factors that include physical fitness, presence or history of infections, and even the altitude at which a person lives. The environment also affects human genes. Serotonin, a neurotransmitter that acts inside brain cells, lowers anxiety and depression during traumatic times. Mutations in the serotonin transporter gene may cause a reduced ability to cope with stress. That does not mean that the person is always depressed, but if the environment produces stress, the person may become depressed more easily than a person with unmutated serotonin transporter genes. Taking a newborn blood sample for PKU testing. By Staff Sgt Eric T. Sheler, U.S. Air Force (Phenylketonuria testing) Public Domain You already learned about PKU, a pleiotropic disorder caused by defects in a single gene coding for an enzyme that converts the amino acid phenylalanine to tyrosine. Newborns are tested for this defect very early in life, so that if the results are positive, they can be given a diet limiting phenylalanine ingestion. That way, the toxic buildup is prevented and the children can develop normally. PKU is an example in which environmental factors can modify gene expression. Characteristics that are influenced by environmental as well as genetic factors are called multifactorial. The idea of “nature versus nurture” — in other words, the relative influence of genetics versus environmental factors — has been and still is debated. Just looking at the genes of a given organism will not determine how that organism will develop and act. Even identical twins will show different characteristics, depending on the environment in which they live. Everyone is a product of their environment as well as their genetics. Even when influenced by the environment, phenotypes have a normal range of expression. For instance, human height varies based on nutrition and genetics, but not many people are shorter than 4½ feet or taller than 7 feet. The range of phenotypic possibilities is called the norm of reaction. Hydrangeas, for example, may be blue, pink, or purple, but they are never naturally orange. Hydrangeas are blue in acidic soil with available aluminum, and they are pink in alkaline soil without available aluminum. Some human characteristics have a narrow norm of reaction, such as blood type. Others have a wide norm of reaction, such as the number of blood cells in humans, which varies depending on factors that include physical fitness, presence or history of infections, and even the altitude at which a person lives. The environment also affects human genes. Serotonin, a neurotransmitter that acts inside brain cells, lowers anxiety and depression during traumatic times. Mutations in the serotonin transporter gene may cause a reduced ability to cope with stress. That does not mean that the person is always depressed, but if the environment produces stress, the person may become depressed more easily than a person with unmutated serotonin transporter genes. Taking a newborn blood sample for PKU testing. By Staff Sgt Eric T. Sheler, U.S. Air Force (Phenylketonuria testing) Public Domain You already learned about PKU, a pleiotropic disorder caused by defects in a single gene coding for an enzyme that converts the amino acid phenylalanine to tyrosine. Newborns are tested for this defect very early in life, so that if the results are positive, they can be given a diet limiting phenylalanine ingestion. That way, the toxic buildup is prevented and the children can develop normally. PKU is an example in which environmental factors can modify gene expression.   Non-Mendelian Inheritance: Summary Summary The relationship between alleles is not always as simple as dominant/recessive. Sometimes the resulting phenotype is an intermediate of the dominant and the recessive phenotypes (as in incomplete dominance). Other times, two dominant alleles are expressed concurrently (as in codominance). In the Mendelian pattern, it is possible to pinpoint a gene/allele coding for a specific protein to a particular trait. There are, however, more complex patterns to consider as well, such as epistasis, in which genes can influence each other’s expression, and polygenic inheritance, in which more than one gene is responsible for a particular trait. It is important to remember that genes alone do not determine everything — the environment plays an important role in shaping characteristics, too. There is lots to explore in the “nature versus nurture” relationship. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. codominant epistasis incomplete dominance pleiotropy polygenic The relationship between alleles is not always as simple as dominant/recessive. Sometimes the resulting phenotype is an intermediate of the dominant and the recessive phenotypes (as in incomplete dominance). Other times, two dominant alleles are expressed concurrently (as in codominance). In the Mendelian pattern, it is possible to pinpoint a gene/allele coding for a specific protein to a particular trait. There are, however, more complex patterns to consider as well, such as epistasis, in which genes can influence each other’s expression, and polygenic inheritance, in which more than one gene is responsible for a particular trait. It is important to remember that genes alone do not determine everything — the environment plays an important role in shaping characteristics, too. There is lots to explore in the “nature versus nurture” relationship. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. codominant epistasis incomplete dominance pleiotropy polygenic   Unit Introduction: Molecular Genetics Rice seed collection. By IRRI Images (originally posted to Flickr as IMG_1926-6) [CC-BY-2.0 (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0)], via Wikimedia Commons If we compare traits of individuals within species, we find that they share certain traits, but they also show many differences among individuals. Rice in the figure above shows variation in shape and color of seeds/grains. People also come in different shapes and sizes. What determines physical traits that characterize a person: hair color, eye color, height, weight? How about behavior: some people are risk-takers, others get easily anxious; some people love to be in large noisy crowds, others prefer quiet and solitude. What is more important in determining physical and behavioral traits: genetics or environment? This classic “nature vs. nurture” argument should not be phrased as “either/or,” because the answer is “both.” The interactions between genes and environment determine the traits. A better question to ask is “To what extent is each trait determined by genetics and to what extent by environment?” The answer will vary by trait and is still being researched (it is not a trivial question to answer, and these numbers are only rough estimate): Estimated genetic contribution Height 80% of variation due to genetics Type I diabetes 70-90% of variation due to genetics Type II diabetes 25% of variation due to genetics In the Classical Genetics unit, we considered the mechanisms of inheritance focusing mostly on the organism and population levels in the hierarchy of life. In Molecular Genetics, we will discuss the molecular basis of traits that characterize the organisms. We want to understand on the molecular level how genetic information is organized and used by living organisms. First, we will discuss the storage, transmission, and expression of genetic information (central dogma of molecular biology) whereby the information content in DNA sequences, called genes, are ultimately converted to a protein. Then we will look at the structure of genes and genomes as well as the interactions between genes and the environment. Finally, we’ll look at how humans are able to manipulate genes through biotechnology.   Introduction to Molecular Genetics In the Classical Genetics unit, you learned about the mechanisms of inheritance, focusing mostly on the organism and population levels in the hierarchy of life. In the Molecular Genetics unit, you will learn about the molecular basis of traits that characterize the organisms. You will develop an understanding on the molecular level of how genetic information is organized and used by living organisms. DNA carries all the information needed to build living organisms. Information in DNA is used to build proteins, which cause the physical traits, or phenotypes, of an organism. The central dogma describes how the information in the DNA is used to build a molecule of mRNA, which provides instructions to the ribosome for building the proteins that cause the physical traits. If we compare traits of individuals within species, we find that they share certain traits, but they also show many differences among individuals. Fore example, rice (pictured below) shows variation in shape and color of seeds/grains. People also come in different shapes and sizes. What determines physical traits that characterize a person: hair color, eye color, height, weight? How about behavior: some people are risk-takers, others get easily anxious; some people love to be in large noisy crowds, others prefer quiet and solitude. What is more important in determining physical and behavioral traits — genetics or environment? This classic “nature vs. nurture” argument should not be phrased as “either/or,” because the answer is “both.” The interactions between genes and environment determine the traits. Rice seed collection. Source: BY Kleomarlo (Rice diversity) CC-BY-2.0 A better question to ask is “To what extent is each trait determined by genetics and to what extent by environment?” The answer will vary by trait and is still being researched. It is not a trivial question to answer, and the numbers below are only rough estimates. Estimated Genetic Contribution Height 80% of variation due to genetics Type I diabetes 70-90% of variation due to genetics Type II diabetes 25% of variation due to genetics In Molecular Genetics, first you will learn about the storage, transmission, and expression of genetic information (central dogma of molecular biology), whereby the information content in DNA sequences, called genes, is ultimately converted to a protein. Then you will look at the structure of genes and genomes and at the interactions between genes and the environment. Finally, you will examine how humans are able to manipulate genes through biotechnology.   Introduction to DNA Function and Replication If you look at people around you, you will probably notice a fairly large variation in height. Some people are taller than you, while others are shorter than you. Consider this trait as an example that you want to understand on the molecular level. What kinds of molecules may be involved in determining a person’s height? If you and your parents are relatively short (or tall), you may say that you inherited the short (or tall) stature from your parents. What molecule is involved in the transmission of information from one generation to the next? DNA. How does information contained in DNA affect your height? One possible explanation is that your DNA contains a gene encoding a protein called growth hormone. This protein is produced by the pituitary gland, travels to other tissues, and delivers a signal for the cells to grow and divide. Changes in the amount of protein produced or the sequence of amino acids in the protein can affect the function. If bone and muscle cells receive only a small number of signal molecules, the person will end up with a short stature. If they receive a large number of signal molecules, the person may end up being very tall. For a signaling protein (hormone) to deliver the signal, there must be a protein that can bind the hormone and receive the signal (receptor protein). The variation in height will result from any of the following: The amount of signaling protein produced. The amount of receptor produced in different tissues. How tightly the hormone and the receptor bind to each other; small variations in specific amino acids of either molecule can change the binding interaction. Note that a person who inherits “tall” genes may never grow very tall because of illness or inadequate nutrition. Conversely, a person who inherits a faulty growth hormone gene may grow relatively tall if he or she is treated with growth hormone. These are examples of how environment and genes interact to produce traits and phenotypes. In this module, you will learn about how genetic information is stored in DNA and copied for the next generation. You will also look at a practical application of the process of DNA replication called the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In the next module, you will learn how the genetic information stored in genes is expressed, resulting in the variety of traits and phenotypes of all organisms.   Introduction to DNA Function and Replication If you look at people around you, you will probably notice a fairly large variation in height. Some people are taller than you, while others are shorter than you. Consider this trait as an example that you want to understand on the molecular level. What kinds of molecules may be involved in determining a person’s height? If you and your parents are relatively short (or tall), you may say that you inherited the short (or tall) stature from your parents. What molecule is involved in the transmission of information from one generation to the next? DNA. How does information contained in DNA affect your height? One possible explanation is that your DNA contains a gene encoding a protein called growth hormone. This protein is produced by the pituitary gland, travels to other tissues, and delivers a signal for the cells to grow and divide. Changes in the amount of protein produced or the sequence of amino acids in the protein can affect the function. If bone and muscle cells receive only a small number of signal molecules, the person will end up with a short stature. If they receive a large number of signal molecules, the person may end up being very tall. For a signaling protein (hormone) to deliver the signal, there must be a protein that can bind the hormone and receive the signal (receptor protein). The variation in height will result from any of the following: The amount of signaling protein produced. The amount of receptor produced in different tissues. How tightly the hormone and the receptor bind to each other; small variations in specific amino acids of either molecule can change the binding interaction. Note that a person who inherits “tall” genes may never grow very tall because of illness or inadequate nutrition. Conversely, a person who inherits a faulty growth hormone gene may grow relatively tall if he or she is treated with growth hormone. These are examples of how environment and genes interact to produce traits and phenotypes. In this module, you will learn about how genetic information is stored in DNA and copied for the next generation. You will also look at a practical application of the process of DNA replication called the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In the next module, you will learn how the genetic information stored in genes is expressed, resulting in the variety of traits and phenotypes of all organisms. DNA Discovery Learn about the researchers and experiments that lead to the discovery of DNA in this activity.   Application Spotlight: Gene Mutations BRCA Gene Mutations in Breast Cancer In this module you learned about the role of DNA as the molecule that stores genetic information. Any damage to the DNA molecule can have serious consequences for the cell. There are many different cellular mechanisms to repair DNA damage or to stop a cell with errors in its DNA from dividing. The BRCA genes code for proteins involved in detecting and repairing double strand breaks in the DNA molecule. If there is a defect in either of the genes BRCA1 or BRCA2, that will result in increased chances of DNA errors, which ultimately can increase the likelihood of cancer. BRCA genes are therefore considered tumor suppressor genes. Mutations in these genes produce a hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome in affected families. Women with harmful mutations in either BRCA1 or BRCA2 have an increased risk of breast cancer that is about five times the normal risk, and a risk of ovarian cancer that is about 10 to 30 times normal. While mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for only five to ten percent of all breast cancer cases in women, it is suggested that women with familial breast or ovarian cancer (when several female close relatives have or had cancer) be tested for BRCA mutations. Testing positive for BRCA mutations does not mean the person will definitely get breast cancer, because there are many other genetic and environmental factors involved. However, having this information may help those individuals to take preventive measures, such as more frequent mammograms. In this module you learned about the role of DNA as the molecule that stores genetic information. Any damage to the DNA molecule can have serious consequences for the cell. There are many different cellular mechanisms to repair DNA damage or to stop a cell with errors in its DNA from dividing. The BRCA genes code for proteins involved in detecting and repairing double strand breaks in the DNA molecule. If there is a defect in either of the genes BRCA1 or BRCA2, that will result in increased chances of DNA errors, which ultimately can increase the likelihood of cancer. BRCA genes are therefore considered tumor suppressor genes. Mutations in these genes produce a hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome in affected families. Women with harmful mutations in either BRCA1 or BRCA2 have an increased risk of breast cancer that is about five times the normal risk, and a risk of ovarian cancer that is about 10 to 30 times normal. While mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for only five to ten percent of all breast cancer cases in women, it is suggested that women with familial breast or ovarian cancer (when several female close relatives have or had cancer) be tested for BRCA mutations. Testing positive for BRCA mutations does not mean the person will definitely get breast cancer, because there are many other genetic and environmental factors involved. However, having this information may help those individuals to take preventive measures, such as more frequent mammograms.   Application Spotlight: Gene Mutations BRCA Gene Mutations in Breast Cancer In this module you learned about the role of DNA as the molecule that stores genetic information. Any damage to the DNA molecule can have serious consequences for the cell. There are many different cellular mechanisms to repair DNA damage or to stop a cell with errors in its DNA from dividing. The BRCA genes code for proteins involved in detecting and repairing double strand breaks in the DNA molecule. If there is a defect in either of the genes BRCA1 or BRCA2, that will result in increased chances of DNA errors, which ultimately can increase the likelihood of cancer. BRCA genes are therefore considered tumor suppressor genes. Mutations in these genes produce a hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome in affected families. Women with harmful mutations in either BRCA1 or BRCA2 have an increased risk of breast cancer that is about five times the normal risk, and a risk of ovarian cancer that is about 10 to 30 times normal. While mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for only five to ten percent of all breast cancer cases in women, it is suggested that women with familial breast or ovarian cancer (when several female close relatives have or had cancer) be tested for BRCA mutations. Testing positive for BRCA mutations does not mean the person will definitely get breast cancer, because there are many other genetic and environmental factors involved. However, having this information may help those individuals to take preventive measures, such as more frequent mammograms. Gene Mutations In this module you learned about the role of DNA as the molecule that stores genetic information. Any damage to the DNA molecule can have serious consequences for the cell. There are many different cellular mechanisms to repair DNA damage or to stop a cell with errors in its DNA from dividing. The BRCA genes code for proteins involved in detecting and repairing double strand breaks in the DNA molecule. If there is a defect in either of the genes BRCA1 or BRCA2, that will result in increased chances of DNA errors, which ultimately can increase the likelihood of cancer. BRCA genes are therefore considered tumor suppressor genes. Mutations in these genes produce a hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome in affected families. Women with harmful mutations in either BRCA1 or BRCA2 have an increased risk of breast cancer that is about five times the normal risk, and a risk of ovarian cancer that is about 10 to 30 times normal. While mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for only five to ten percent of all breast cancer cases in women, it is suggested that women with familial breast or ovarian cancer (when several female close relatives have or had cancer) be tested for BRCA mutations. Testing positive for BRCA mutations does not mean the person will definitely get breast cancer, because there are many other genetic and environmental factors involved. However, having this information may help those individuals to take preventive measures, such as more frequent mammograms. Gene Mutations   Gene Expression: Summary Summary The central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of information from DNA to protein. In this module you learned about transcription and translation. You also learned about mutations (changes in the DNA sequence) and how to predict their effects. At the end we discussed a real life example in which genes and environmental factors interact to produce an important health outcome (breast and ovarian cancer). Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. gene codons gene expression mutation RNA polymerase nucleotides transfer RNA (tRNA) messenger RNA (mRNA) Quiz The central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of information from DNA to protein. In this module you learned about transcription and translation. You also learned about mutations (changes in the DNA sequence) and how to predict their effects. At the end we discussed a real life example in which genes and environmental factors interact to produce an important health outcome (breast and ovarian cancer). Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. gene codons gene expression mutation RNA polymerase nucleotides transfer RNA (tRNA) messenger RNA (mRNA)   Gene Expression: Summary Summary The central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of information from DNA to protein. In this module you learned about transcription and translation. You also learned about mutations (changes in the DNA sequence) and how to predict their effects. At the end we discussed a real life example in which genes and environmental factors interact to produce an important health outcome (breast and ovarian cancer). Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. gene codons gene expression mutation RNA polymerase nucleotides transfer RNA (tRNA) messenger RNA (mRNA) Quiz The central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of information from DNA to protein. In this module you learned about transcription and translation. You also learned about mutations (changes in the DNA sequence) and how to predict their effects. At the end we discussed a real life example in which genes and environmental factors interact to produce an important health outcome (breast and ovarian cancer). Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. gene codons gene expression mutation RNA polymerase nucleotides transfer RNA (tRNA) messenger RNA (mRNA)   Introduction to Gene Regulation You have probably seen Siamese cats--those graceful creatures with darker fur on their faces, tails, and paws. This is an example of a phenotype dependent on the interaction between genes and environment. Modern Siamese cats have a defective tyrosinase enzyme; tyrosinase is involved in the synthesis of melanin, the dark pigment of the skin. This defective enzyme is inactive at normal body temperatures, but it becomes active in cooler areas of the skin. This results in dark coloration in the coolest parts of the body, including the extremities and the face, which is cooled by the passage of air through the sinuses. By Cindy McCravey (Neighbor's Siamese) CC BY 2.0 In this module, we will explore the connection between DNA and phenotype on the molecular level. We will start by clarifying the distinctions between genes, genomes, alleles, and other related terms. We will compare prokaryotic and eukaryotic genes and genomes, and we will look at how DNA is packaged into chromosomes with the help of specialized proteins. We will consider how gene expression can be regulated in the cell by interactions with other genes and environment.   Gene Structure In the previous module, we mentioned different kinds of genes. Some genes produce functional RNA (rRNA and tRNAs), but most genes code for proteins. Remember that a gene is information residing in the order of bases in a DNA molecule. The general organization of information of any gene can be represented as follows: In this module, we will focus on the structure of the protein-coding genes. A protein-coding gene contains information for making the mRNA that is translated into a protein. First, let’s consider what kind of information in the mRNA is required to produce a protein during translation, and then we will step back and look at the information in the gene that is required for transcription. To encode a protein, mRNA needs a protein-coding region and regulatory regions. The coding region of the gene (and the coding region of mRNA) has to start with a start codon: ATG in DNA and AUG in mRNA code for the amino acid methionine, Met. The coding region of a gene always ends with a stop codon TAA, TAG, or TGA (in mRNA, these will have a U instead of a T). The sequence between start and stop codons should contain nucleotides in multiples of three, encoding the sequence of amino acids in the protein. The untranslated regulatory regions (denoted by UTR) include a site for the ribosome to bind before the start codon (5’ UTR) and a region after the stop codon (3’ UTR). Both 5’ and 3’ UTRs can bind specific proteins involved in regulation of translation (how fast new protein product is built, how fast mRNA is degraded). Note that mRNA in the figure above starts with 5’ UTR, not with the start codon. The start codon signals the start of translation, not transcription. Next, we will consider DNA regions required for transcription. Genes include regulatory regions at the beginning and the end of the transcribed DNA: The promoter region of the gene “promotes” transcription by binding RNA polymerase. The terminator region signals the end of transcription. Regulatory regions before and after the transcribed region bind regulatory proteins. These proteins activate or inhibit transcription, depending on the signals from within the cell or from the environment. Putting the regulatory signals associated with RNA production together with those signals on the mRNA, we can represent the central dogma of molecular biology with the following diagram:   Gene Structure In the previous module, we mentioned different kinds of genes. Some genes produce functional RNA (rRNA and tRNAs), but most genes code for proteins. Remember that a gene is information residing in the order of bases in a DNA molecule. The general organization of information of any gene can be represented as follows: In this module, we will focus on the structure of the protein-coding genes. A protein-coding gene contains information for making the mRNA that is translated into a protein. First, let’s consider what kind of information in the mRNA is required to produce a protein during translation, and then we will step back and look at the information in the gene that is required for transcription. To encode a protein, mRNA needs a protein-coding region and regulatory regions. The coding region of the gene (and the coding region of mRNA) has to start with a start codon: ATG in DNA and AUG in mRNA code for the amino acid methionine, Met. The coding region of a gene always ends with a stop codon TAA, TAG, or TGA (in mRNA, these will have a U instead of a T). The sequence between start and stop codons should contain nucleotides in multiples of three, encoding the sequence of amino acids in the protein. The untranslated regulatory regions (denoted by UTR) include a site for the ribosome to bind before the start codon (5’ UTR) and a region after the stop codon (3’ UTR). Both 5’ and 3’ UTRs can bind specific proteins involved in regulation of translation (how fast new protein product is built, how fast mRNA is degraded). Note that mRNA in the figure above starts with 5’ UTR, not with the start codon. The start codon signals the start of translation, not transcription. Next, we will consider DNA regions required for transcription. Genes include regulatory regions at the beginning and the end of the transcribed DNA: The promoter region of the gene “promotes” transcription by binding RNA polymerase. The terminator region signals the end of transcription. Regulatory regions before and after the transcribed region bind regulatory proteins. These proteins activate or inhibit transcription, depending on the signals from within the cell or from the environment. Putting the regulatory signals associated with RNA production together with those signals on the mRNA, we can represent the central dogma of molecular biology with the following diagram:   What Is a Gene? Throughout the genetics unit, we have been using the terms gene, allele, and DNA, along with several other related terms. Before we go on, we need to clarify the relationships among these terms. First, we need to distinguish between terms that relate to actual molecules and terms that relate to the information content of those molecules. The macromolecule that carries genetic information is DNA, which in the eukaryotic cell binds specialized proteins to create compact structures called chromosomes. All the hereditary information contained within an organism is called a genome. The genome includes genes and noncoding DNA sequences. The human genome, for example, contains the DNA sequence (information) of 22 autosomal chromosomes, as well as the two sex chromosomes X and Y. The field of study that focuses on the properties of genomes is called genomics, which is related to but distinct from genetics, which focuses on individual genes or a group of genes. By KES47 (Chromosome en) CC BY 3.0 Genes carry the information required to produce a functional product (protein or RNA). The information is contained in the order of bases in the DNA. This information is “read” by the cell to produce, first RNA, and then a protein, during a process called gene expression. When a protein affects an observable characteristic of an organism (remember, observable characteristics represent an organism’s phenotype), the gene encoding that particular protein can be linked to that characteristic or character (e.g., hair color, eye color, or height). Traits are specific variations in characteristics (e.g., black hair or blue eyes). For example, the gene encoding growth hormone (a protein) affects the height of an individual; in this case, height is the characteristic, and tall or short stature are the traits. Some genes can be linked to the development of diseases. Nearly all observable characteristics depend upon multiple genes. Therefore, when we hear someone refer to the “obesity gene,” “Alzheimer’s gene,” “breast cancer gene,” and so on, it is important to realize that these labels imply (or should imply) one of the multiple genes that contribute to each of these conditions. What is the connection between genes and traits? We must now consider alleles, which are observed variations in the sequence of bases for a particular gene. Two alleles of a gene may differ by a single base. On one end of the spectrum, an allele may refer to a total deletion of a gene. A diploid organism has two alleles of each gene, one from the organism’s mother and one from its father. The combination of the two alleles of a particular gene is the genetic determinant of the phenotypic traits of the organism. Note that in addition to genetic factors, environment also contributes to traits. We will consider environmental effects in a later section. The arrows in the diagram show the relationships among the key terms gene, allele, trait, and character (or characteristic). The characteristic of eye color is used as an example to illustrate these relationships. Eye color depends upon production of the pigment melanin. Pigment production depends upon transport of tyrosine (the amino acid required to produce melanin) across the cell membrane. The transporter protein is encoded by the gene OCA2. A person with brown eyes produces functional transporter protein and plenty of pigment, leading to dark eye color. A mutation G to A in position 1559 of the coding DNA sequence of OCA2 leads to amino acid change in the transport protein; instead of alanine in position 481, threonine is present. This leads to reduced function of the transporter, which in turn results in decreased production of melanin. When the second allele is a deletion, an albino phenotype results (pale blue eyes, pale skin and hair color). What is the difference between allele and mutation? Any change in the DNA of an organism is called a mutation. Mutations can be advantageous, harmful, or neutral (in which case they have no effect on the phenotype). Mutations include large deletions and rearrangements in the DNA, but they can also be changes in a single base. Mutation is a more general term than allele because mutation does not necessarily involve a specific gene, but can include deletion or rearrangement of multiple genes. Multiple alleles of a gene arise by mutation, and they will be passed on to the offspring and will persist in the population.   Producing HuGH: An Overview The basic steps in producing human growth hormone (HuGH) in bacteria are: generation of a synthetic gene inserting this gene into a bacterial expression plasmid, introducing the plasmid into bacteria, production and purification of the human growth hormone. The synthetic gene provides the information that specifies the order of the amino acids in HuGH. The expression plasmid is a large closed circular piece of DNA. Various DNA sequences on the expression plasmid are required for maintenance of the plasmid in the cells. These sequences are present on all plasmids, regardless of the type of protein that is being made. The plasmid also contains DNA sequences (promoter for RNA polymerase, lac operator) that are required for the production of the mRNA that encodes HuGH. The bacterial cell provides the protein synthesizing machinery so that the mRNA can be translated to a protein. In order for the protein to be correctly made the mRNA must contain a ribosome binding site, a start codon, and a stop codon. More recently, proteins used for medical treatment are produced in yeast or cultured mammalian cells that are grown in synthetic growth media. Protein production in yeast or mammalian cells avoids the possibility of having toxic bacterial impurities in the final product. The overall steps in producing the protein in yeast or mammalian cells are very similar to the steps described here, however the overall cost of producing the protein may be somewhat higher. Growth of mammalian cells in tissue culture. The sterile plastic dish holds synthetic media (red liquid) that supports the growth of mammalian cells Steps in the production of Human Growth Hormone in Bacteria. A synthetic gene is made that can be translated into the amino acid sequence of the human growth hormone. This gene is inserted in the correct location in a closed circular piece of DNA (an expression plasmid) by use of restriction sites. The expression plasmid is introduced into bacteria. The bacteria are grown to a high cell density, and then lactose is added to induce the production of human growth hormone.   Place Gene Into Expression Plasmid Insertion of the Human Growth Hormone Gene Into the Expression plasmid Restriction endonucleases and DNA ligase are used to insert the synthetic gene into the correct location in the expression plasmid, just after the ribosome binding site. The expression plasmid would have two different restriction sites after the ribosome binding site to facilitate the insertion of the synthetic gene. To utilize these sites it would be necessary to include these restriction sites at the end of our synthetic gene. The expression plasmid and the synthetic fragment would be cut with the restriction enzymes, mixed, and then treated with DNA ligase to re-seal the phosphodiester backbone: Detailed process of joining the huGH gene to the expression plasmid. Both the plasmid and the huGH gene are cut with EcoR1 (G^AATTC) and BamHI (G^GATCC), generating sticky ends on both DNAs (bold text). After mixing the cut plasmid and huGH gene, the sticky ends pair by hydrogen bonding (highlight), bringing the DNA molecules close so that they can be ligated by DNA ligase. Combined expression plasmid - synthetic gene before ligation. The paired sticky ends are highlighted in yellow. 