11. [u'dna', u'protein', u'proteins']
   A-DNA Be able to define the functions of each of the classes of lipids. A-DNA - conformation right handed helix tilt bases major and minor grooves equal basic structure of RNA and RNA-DNA hybrids   B-DNA Be able to define the functions of each of the classes of lipids. B-DNA - conformation right handed helix major groove - minor groove dominant form of DNA in cells   Backbone Identify a phosphodiester bond. Describe 3 common structural characteristics of DNA/RNA polymer backbones. Explain the major difference between the DNA and RNA backbone structures. Give two examples of bioselectivity in the formation of the RNA or DNA backbone. The Backbone Both DNA and RNA are linear polymers. The components of the backbone of the polymer include a set of furanose sugars linked together by bridging phosphate molecules in a synthesis between the 3 position of one furanose and the 5 position of the next furanose. This linkage is made through condensation synthesis formation of ester bonds by a bridging phosphate molecule between two hydroxyl groups, one on each furanose ring. The resulting polymer is a string of furanose molecules linked by phosphodiester bonds and having the 5 position exposed on one end of the polymer and the 3 position exposed on the other end of the molecule. Polymer The major difference in the polymer backbones between DNA and RNA is the sugar used in the formation of the polymer. In DNA (DeoxyriboNucleic Acid) the sugar is the aldose deoxyribose with a hydrogen replacing the hydroxyl at the 2 position of ribose, a furanose. In RNA (RiboNuceic Acid), the sugar is the monosaccharide ribose in the furanose conformation. The numbering of the positions on the sugar furanose rings of DNA and RNA follow a convention that uses ' (prime) to denote the sugar positions. Thus the ribose has X connected to the 1' position and hydroxyl groups on the 2', 3' and 5' positions. Using this nomenclature, deoxyribose is formally called 2'-deoxyribose (2 prime deoxyribose) to denote the loss of the hydroxyl at the 2' position of ribose. Furanose Sugars And, the resulting phosphodiester link is between the 3' position of one furanose and the 5' position on the second furanose. Formation of phosphodiester Bonds Condensation synthesis of the phosphodiester bond between the 3' position of one ribose and the 5' position of the second ribose. The images below show the backbone structures for both DNA and RNA. Phosphodiester linked sugar-phosphate-sugar backbone The synthesis of the backbones illustrated above is directed by specific enzymes that restrict the possible structures to links between the 3' position and the 5' position of the sugars with a bridging phosphate and to selected sugars with specific inclusion of either ribose or 2'-deoxyribose. The following is a list of structural characteristics of the DNA/RNA polymer backbone. Phosphate-ribose(deoxyribose)-phosphate-ribose(deoxyribose)sequence Linked by Phosphodiester covalent bonds 3' position on one ribose(deoxyribose) linked to 5' position of adjacent ribose(deoxyribose) through phosphodiester bridge chain has 3' end and 5' end In the structure above the X represents the bases that distinguish the units of the backbone from each other in much the same way that the 20 naturally occuring side chains on a common backbone distinguish the units of a polypeptide (protein) structure. These bases will be explored in the following sections. The following is a video in which Dr. Brown explains the structure and formation of DNA and RNA backbones. Both DNA and RNA are linear polymers. The components of the backbone of the polymer include a set of furanose sugars linked together by bridging phosphate molecules in a synthesis between the 3 position of one furanose and the 5 position of the next furanose. This linkage is made through condensation synthesis formation of ester bonds by a bridging phosphate molecule between two hydroxyl groups, one on each furanose ring. The resulting polymer is a string of furanose molecules linked by phosphodiester bonds and having the 5 position exposed on one end of the polymer and the 3 position exposed on the other end of the molecule. Polymer The major difference in the polymer backbones between DNA and RNA is the sugar used in the formation of the polymer. In DNA (DeoxyriboNucleic Acid) the sugar is the aldose deoxyribose with a hydrogen replacing the hydroxyl at the 2 position of ribose, a furanose. In RNA (RiboNuceic Acid), the sugar is the monosaccharide ribose in the furanose conformation. The numbering of the positions on the sugar furanose rings of DNA and RNA follow a convention that uses ' (prime) to denote the sugar positions. Thus the ribose has X connected to the 1' position and hydroxyl groups on the 2', 3' and 5' positions. Using this nomenclature, deoxyribose is formally called 2'-deoxyribose (2 prime deoxyribose) to denote the loss of the hydroxyl at the 2' position of ribose. Furanose Sugars And, the resulting phosphodiester link is between the 3' position of one furanose and the 5' position on the second furanose. Formation of phosphodiester Bonds Condensation synthesis of the phosphodiester bond between the 3' position of one ribose and the 5' position of the second ribose. The images below show the backbone structures for both DNA and RNA. Phosphodiester linked sugar-phosphate-sugar backbone The synthesis of the backbones illustrated above is directed by specific enzymes that restrict the possible structures to links between the 3' position and the 5' position of the sugars with a bridging phosphate and to selected sugars with specific inclusion of either ribose or 2'-deoxyribose. The following is a list of structural characteristics of the DNA/RNA polymer backbone. Phosphate-ribose(deoxyribose)-phosphate-ribose(deoxyribose)sequence Linked by Phosphodiester covalent bonds 3' position on one ribose(deoxyribose) linked to 5' position of adjacent ribose(deoxyribose) through phosphodiester bridge chain has 3' end and 5' end In the structure above the X represents the bases that distinguish the units of the backbone from each other in much the same way that the 20 naturally occuring side chains on a common backbone distinguish the units of a polypeptide (protein) structure. These bases will be explored in the following sections. The following is a video in which Dr. Brown explains the structure and formation of DNA and RNA backbones.   Bases Identify the difference between a purine and pyrimidine. Identify the structure of each of the nitrogenous bases: A, T, G, C,U. Describe the difference and identify the difference between a nucleotide and a nuceloside. Correctly identify and specifically name all of the nucleotides. Identify which bases are incorporated into DNA and RNA. The Bases The backbone structure of both DNA and RNA shows variability according to the composition of X in the structure given on the previous page. X represents a set of nitrogenous bases. The bases are divided into two fundamental ring structures: purines (2 fused aromatic rings) and pyrimidines (a single aromatic ring). The differences in the bases, which are only found attached to a sugar, give rise to the second major variation in the difference between DNA and RNA. All of the bases have the common structural characteristic that they are planar structures due to the aromatic (alternating double bonds in the rings) structure of the molecules. This feature parallels that previously seen with the phenyl group [Refer to the Functional Groups simulation in the Glossary to review the structure of the phenyl group]. This aromatic character also gives rise to the ability of the bases to absorb ultraviolet light at 260 nm. This latter feature provides a distinctive means for identifying the presence of DNA and RNA molecules. Purine Pyrimidine 2 fused, planar rings one, planar ring The variations in the structures of the purine and pyrimidine bases are limited to the five that are used during copying of DNA (Replication) or transcribing of DNA into RNA (Transcription). The structures of these nitrogenous bases are given below. The bases do not occur as free bases in nature but are always bound to a furanose ring. Since the bases are always associated with a sugar in nature, they take on specific names according to their structure. The base by itself has a specific name and the base attached to a sugar (a nucleoside) has a distinct name. The following table gives the names of the purines and pyrimidines as the free base and as the nucleoside with their one letter abbreviation. The naming of the nucleotidesA component of nucleic acids consisting of a sugar, usually ribose or deoxyribose, a purine or pyrimidine base, and a phosphate group attached either at the 5 prime or 3 prime position of the sugar ring. is analogous to the nucleosideA component of nucleic acids consisting of a sugar, usually ribose or deoxyribose, and a purine or pyrimidine base. A compound obtained by hydrolysis of a nucleic acid. with the added specification of the location of the phosphate group. An example of this nomeclature is given below the table with the structures. Structure of Bases The Purine and Pyrimidine Bases Purine Bases Pyrimidine Bases base nucleoside found in base nucleoside found in Adenine Adenosine (A) DNA and RNA Thymine Thymidine (T) DNA only Guanine Guanosine (G) DNA and RNA Uracil Uridine (U) RNA only . Cytosine Cytidine (C) DNA and RNA Nucleoside vs Nucleotide A nucleoside contains only a base attached to a sugar while a nucleotide is composed of a nucleoside to which a phosphate has been added at either the 3' or 5' position. Linking the nucleotides together, a linear polymer is generated with sequences varying according to the placement of the bases along the final backbone. The following figure shows a tetranucleotide sequence of DNA. The bases, sugars and phosphodiester bonds are alternately highlighted. In the lower left of the frame is a schematic representation of the same sequence. Strands of DNA The Phosphodiester Bonds between the sugars form the backbone structures of the DNA and RNA The illustration below shows a dinucleotide of DNA and RNA. Note the backbone to which each of the bases is attached. While there are four bases associated with DNA and four with RNA, are they the same set in each case? Dinucleotides of DNA and RNA Replacing the X's on the Backbone of DNA and RNA The following link is a video in which Dr. Brown explains the structure of bases. The backbone structure of both DNA and RNA shows variability according to the composition of X in the structure given on the previous page. X represents a set of nitrogenous bases. The bases are divided into two fundamental ring structures: purines (2 fused aromatic rings) and pyrimidines (a single aromatic ring). The differences in the bases, which are only found attached to a sugar, give rise to the second major variation in the difference between DNA and RNA. All of the bases have the common structural characteristic that they are planar structures due to the aromatic (alternating double bonds in the rings) structure of the molecules. This feature parallels that previously seen with the phenyl group [Refer to the Functional Groups simulation in the Glossary to review the structure of the phenyl group]. This aromatic character also gives rise to the ability of the bases to absorb ultraviolet light at 260 nm. This latter feature provides a distinctive means for identifying the presence of DNA and RNA molecules. Purine Pyrimidine 2 fused, planar rings one, planar ring The variations in the structures of the purine and pyrimidine bases are limited to the five that are used during copying of DNA (Replication) or transcribing of DNA into RNA (Transcription). The structures of these nitrogenous bases are given below. The bases do not occur as free bases in nature but are always bound to a furanose ring. Since the bases are always associated with a sugar in nature, they take on specific names according to their structure. The base by itself has a specific name and the base attached to a sugar (a nucleoside) has a distinct name. The following table gives the names of the purines and pyrimidines as the free base and as the nucleoside with their one letter abbreviation. The naming of the nucleotidesA component of nucleic acids consisting of a sugar, usually ribose or deoxyribose, a purine or pyrimidine base, and a phosphate group attached either at the 5 prime or 3 prime position of the sugar ring. is analogous to the nucleosideA component of nucleic acids consisting of a sugar, usually ribose or deoxyribose, and a purine or pyrimidine base. A compound obtained by hydrolysis of a nucleic acid. with the added specification of the location of the phosphate group. An example of this nomeclature is given below the table with the structures. Structure of Bases The Purine and Pyrimidine Bases Purine Bases Pyrimidine Bases base nucleoside found in base nucleoside found in Adenine Adenosine (A) DNA and RNA Thymine Thymidine (T) DNA only Guanine Guanosine (G) DNA and RNA Uracil Uridine (U) RNA only . Cytosine Cytidine (C) DNA and RNA Nucleoside vs Nucleotide A nucleoside contains only a base attached to a sugar while a nucleotide is composed of a nucleoside to which a phosphate has been added at either the 3' or 5' position. Linking the nucleotides together, a linear polymer is generated with sequences varying according to the placement of the bases along the final backbone. The following figure shows a tetranucleotide sequence of DNA. The bases, sugars and phosphodiester bonds are alternately highlighted. In the lower left of the frame is a schematic representation of the same sequence. Strands of DNA The Phosphodiester Bonds between the sugars form the backbone structures of the DNA and RNA The illustration below shows a dinucleotide of DNA and RNA. Note the backbone to which each of the bases is attached. While there are four bases associated with DNA and four with RNA, are they the same set in each case? Dinucleotides of DNA and RNA Replacing the X's on the Backbone of DNA and RNA The following link is a video in which Dr. Brown explains the structure of bases.   Basis of Molecular Biology Describe and list the sequence of events from DNA to protein in the central dogma of molecular biology. Describe the role of DNA and RNA in the central dogma of molecular biology. Modern molecular biology is built upon our understanding of the structure and function of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid) and the enzymes and proteins that interact with these structures. In this section of the course the structures of RNA and DNA will be explored along with the processes by which they are used to transmit information. The structure of DNA (shown on the left below) is the molecule upon which the Central Dogma of modern molecular biology is based. It contains the information necessary to code for the RNA and proteins used by a cell or virus to replicate and produce the next generation. While a virus does not satisfy one of the major tenets of the Cell Theory that the entity is able to self-replicate, it still uses information from either its own DNA (RNA) or its host DNA to replicate itself. Although RNA has much of the same basic structural features of DNA, it takes on many more tertiary structures and has multiple functions in the cell. The forms of RNA include: mRNA: messenger RNA is a copy of the DNA sequence that is read by the ribosome during protein synthesis. The mRNA contains the information on the order of the amino acids in protein that is being synthesized on the ribosome. Each base triplet corresponds to one amino acid. tRNA: transfer RNA is responsible for translation of the nucleic acid code to an amino acid. tRNA carries an amino acid to the protein synthesis machinery (ribosome) and is responsible for decoding the mRNA information to insert the correct amino acid into the growing protein on the ribosome. tRNA folds into a distinct three dimensional structure, as shown in the 3D Jmol image on the right. rRNA: ribosomal RNA is a significant structural component of the ribosome and plays a role in the catalyzing the formation of the peptide bond during protein synthesis. Since the rRNA catalyzes the reaction, it is referred to as catalytic RNA or a ribozyme. Structure of B-DNA and tRNA. Instructions: Drag the model with your mouse to rotate it in 3D space. Use your right mouse button or control click to select menu for exploring the model. Structure of B-DNA double helix (1BNA.pdb). Structure of t-RNA double helix (4TRA.pdb). Combining all of these roles together, the Central Dogma of modern molecular biology follows the process outlined in this section and depicted below. DNA, with the aid of specific proteins and enzymes is replicated (DNA Replication) thus providing a copy to be passed to the next generation, the DNA is transcribed in sections (Transcription) into a RNA molecule that codes for a protein or that can itself be used in the form of RNA, and the RNA can be translated (Translation) into the primary sequence of a protein. This short animation summarizes the processes central to Molecular Biology. The DNA double strand separates, the RNA Polymerase moves along the strand and transcribes the information from one strand of the DNA to a strand of RNA, and the RNA leaves the nucleus where its sequence is translated to a protein sequence on the ribosome. The intensive efforts to understand the structure of the molecules involved as well as the details of the process have also yielded a set of tools that have led to the sequencing of whole genomes containing the inherited information passed from generation to generation. This immense amount of information has spawned the field of computational biology that is able to extract information from the sequences that can be applied to both our basic understanding of the functioning of organisms and to applications leading to potential cures for genetically inherited diseases.   Phosphodiester Bond Be able to describe the features of the double helix. The Double Helix The DNA and RNA polymers are linear polymers The DNA Chain The Phosphodiester Bonds between the sugars form the backbone structures of the DNA and RNA Symbol Representation Long Chain Caption 3D DNA Representation Caption The following link is a video in which Dr. Bill Brown explains how DNA and RNA are constructed from the backbones and bases. The DNA and RNA polymers are linear polymers The DNA Chain The Phosphodiester Bonds between the sugars form the backbone structures of the DNA and RNA Symbol Representation Long Chain Caption 3D DNA Representation Caption The following link is a video in which Dr. Bill Brown explains how DNA and RNA are constructed from the backbones and bases.   Hydrogen Bonding of Bases Identify correct base pairing between DNA and RNA bases. Correctly draw the hydrogen bonding between DNA and RNA bases. Describe why AT and AU base pairs are weaker than GC base pairs. Describe why purines are always paired with pyrimidines to form the helix structures of DNA and RNA. Hydrogen Bonding Between Bases The following is an interactive simulation that allows you to form hydrogen bonding pairs between the appropriate bases in DNA and RNA that would be allowed in the formation of the double helical structure. You should apply the definition of the hydrogen bond to form all possible hydrogen bonds in any pair of bases you choose. All of the possible hyrogen bonds may be useful later as we explore multiple structures especially for RNA. The focus of this exercise is to itentify bonding partners that will be optimal in the formation of the DNA and RNA helical structures. Bonding Patterns of Bases Select the proper base from the right to bond with the example on the left. Draw the hydrogen bonds between then and then click the Done when you have drawn all of the bonds and then identify the bases. The following is an interactive simulation that allows you to form hydrogen bonding pairs between the appropriate bases in DNA and RNA that would be allowed in the formation of the double helical structure. You should apply the definition of the hydrogen bond to form all possible hydrogen bonds in any pair of bases you choose. All of the possible hyrogen bonds may be useful later as we explore multiple structures especially for RNA. The focus of this exercise is to itentify bonding partners that will be optimal in the formation of the DNA and RNA helical structures. Bonding Patterns of Bases Select the proper base from the right to bond with the example on the left. Draw the hydrogen bonds between then and then click the Done when you have drawn all of the bonds and then identify the bases.   Building DNA and RNA Be able to define the functions of each of the classes of lipids. The Edit Here Strands of DNA The Phosphodiester Bonds between the sugars form the backbone structures of the DNA and RNA Structure of Double strand Caption Symbol Representation Long Chain Click the image to examine the enlarged 3D structure 3D DNA Representation Caption The following link is a video in which Dr. Brown explains how DNA and RNA are constructed from the backbones and bases. Strands of DNA The Phosphodiester Bonds between the sugars form the backbone structures of the DNA and RNA Structure of Double strand Caption Symbol Representation Long Chain Click the image to examine the enlarged 3D structure 3D DNA Representation Caption The following link is a video in which Dr. Brown explains how DNA and RNA are constructed from the backbones and bases.   Differences between DNA and RNA Describe the structural differences between the A-helix and B-helix. Define which helix type describes DNA and RNA. The tertiary structure of B-DNA has been described with a number of specific characteristics. These characteristics describe what is referred to as the B-helix. It is the most common structural form of double stranded DNA. RNA and hybrids of DNA with RNA have altered characteristics resulting from the substitution of a ribose for a deoxyribose in the backbone structure. The general characteristics found in the B-DNA are still present; however, slight differences in the specific characteristics result in dramatic changes in the overall structure of the helix. The following table compares some of the finer characteristics of the B-helix and A-helix. In general, the A-helix is broader than the B-helix, there are slightly more base pairs per turn in the A-helix, and most significantly, the tilt of the bases relative to the axis of the helix is much greater in the A-Helix. A-helix B-helix Shape Broader than B Screw Sense Right Right Base pairs/Turn 11 10.4 Pitch/turn 25 35 Tilt of Bases 19 1 Major Groove Narrow/Very Deep Wide/Quite Deep Minor Groove Very Broad/Shallow Narrow/Deep The following 3D representations illustrate the result of these differences in comparing similar views of the B-helix of DNA with the A-helix in duplex RNA. When exploring these structures you should focus on the following aspects of the structures, noting similarities and differences: The location of phosphate, ribose, and bases with respect to the interior and exterior of the helix The location of the major and minor grooves. The grooves are water and ion filled channels on the side of the double helix. Proteins usually interact with the edges of the bases in the major groove. The tilt of the bases with respect to the axis of the helix. How the bases overlap with each other. As a result of the greater tilt in the bases relative to the helix axis, the bases of the A-helix slide past each other and do not exactly stack on top of each other as they do in the B-helix. Nucleic Acid Structure Instructions: The structure of DNA is shown on the left, and double stranded RNA on the right. Use the buttons to highlight common features of both of these nucleic acids as you answer the questions below. DNA Structure (B-helix) RNA Structure (A-helix) Structure of a Nucleic Acid Graded Quiz The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once.   Differences between DNA and RNA Describe the structural differences between the A-helix and B-helix. Define which helix type describes DNA and RNA. The tertiary structure of B-DNA has been described with a number of specific characteristics. These characteristics describe what is referred to as the B-helix. It is the most common structural form of double stranded DNA. RNA and hybrids of DNA with RNA have altered characteristics resulting from the substitution of a ribose for a deoxyribose in the backbone structure. The general characteristics found in the B-DNA are still present; however, slight differences in the specific characteristics result in dramatic changes in the overall structure of the helix. The following table compares some of the finer characteristics of the B-helix and A-helix. In general, the A-helix is broader than the B-helix, there are slightly more base pairs per turn in the A-helix, and most significantly, the tilt of the bases relative to the axis of the helix is much greater in the A-Helix. A-helix B-helix Shape Broader than B Screw Sense Right Right Base pairs/Turn 11 10.4 Pitch/turn 25 35 Tilt of Bases 19 1 Major Groove Narrow/Very Deep Wide/Quite Deep Minor Groove Very Broad/Shallow Narrow/Deep The following 3D representations illustrate the result of these differences in comparing similar views of the B-helix of DNA with the A-helix in duplex RNA. When exploring these structures you should focus on the following aspects of the structures, noting similarities and differences: The location of phosphate, ribose, and bases with respect to the interior and exterior of the helix The location of the major and minor grooves. The grooves are water and ion filled channels on the side of the double helix. Proteins usually interact with the edges of the bases in the major groove. The tilt of the bases with respect to the axis of the helix. How the bases overlap with each other. As a result of the greater tilt in the bases relative to the helix axis, the bases of the A-helix slide past each other and do not exactly stack on top of each other as they do in the B-helix. Nucleic Acid Structure Instructions: The structure of DNA is shown on the left, and double stranded RNA on the right. Use the buttons to highlight common features of both of these nucleic acids as you answer the questions below. DNA Structure (B-helix) RNA Structure (A-helix) Structure of a Nucleic Acid   Hybridization of DNA/RNA Segments Describe the criteria for determining the most stable structure between two DNA molecules, two RNA molecules, between a DNA and a RNA molecule. Describe the hydrogen bonding that exists between complimentary base pairs in DNA and RNA. Hybridization of DNA and RNA On the previous page you determined that the most stable complimentary base pairing takes place between A and T with two hydrogen bonds and between G and C with three hydrogen bonds in DNA. Combining that finding with the backbone information that described DNA as containing A, T, G, and C as the possible bases and A, U, G, and C as the possible bases in RNA, the complimentary base pairing in RNA would include A with U (examine the difference in structure between T and U) with two hydrogen bonds and G with C as described in DNA. In each case these comlimentary base pairings included a purine hydrogen bonded to a pyrimidine. This means that the distance between the attachment sites for the sugar in all the base pairs are identical giving uniform dimensions to the distance between the two backbones along the length of two strands that are hydrogen bonded together. Because T and U are identical in the hydrogen bonding that each makes with A, this means that a backbone (strand) of DNA can hydrogen bond with another strand of DNA but also with a strand of RNA. The ability of the strands of DNA and RNA to hydrogen bond with each other either as homodimers (DNA-DNA, RNA-RNA) or as heterodimers (DNA-RNA) is referred to as hybridization. As a general rule, hybridization will take place to maximize the number of hydrogen bonds that can be formed between two polynucleotide strands. However, another structural limitation is placed on the formation of the hydrogen bonds between two lengths of polynucleotide strands: the strands must be anti-parallel to each other. This means that the since the backbne has a 5' end and a 3' end, two strands hydridized to each other must have one strand oriented 5' to 3' and the complimentary strand 3' to 5' as illustrated below. 5'- G- C- A- U- A- G- -3' 3'- C- G- U- A- U- C- -5' This short duplex structure is anti-parallel and has 15 hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. As written this is a duplex of two strands of RNA. The figure below shows the same structure as a duplex of DNA. 5'- dG- dC- dA- dT- dA- dG- -3' 3'- dC- dG- dT- dA- dT- dC- -5' Can you generate a hybrid structure using the top 5' to 3' DNA strand from the figure above and create the appropriate RNA strand hybridized to it? Stability of DNA - Base Stacking and Hydrogen Bonds The stability of double stranded DNA is due to two factors, hydrogen bonds and base stacking. Hydrogen bonds provide an attractive force between the strands while base stacking (van der Waals) stabilizes the helical structure. The Jmol below shows the stacking of the bases and illustrates the hydrogen bonding pattern for a GC basepair. The stability of the DNA is to some extent determined by the number of hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. Thus DNA with more GC base pairs is likely to be more stable than one with more AT base pairs. DNA Structure (B-helix) Experimentally it is possible to measure this stability by following the melting of DNA with increasing temperature. Below is a graph of the melting of DNA that coincides with an increase in the ultraviolet (UV) absorbance of the DNA at 260 nm. The increase in absorbance is referred to as the hyperchromic effect and is a measure of the breaking of the hydrogen bonds between the bases and the separation of the two strands. Measurement of Melting Temperature (Tm) of DNA The melting temperatre (Tm) for a piece of DNA is the temperature at which 50% is no longer hybridized. The midpoint of the transition from the double stranded to the single stranded form of the DNA is called the melting temperature (Tm) for the DNA. In most organisms the Tm of the chromosomal DNA ranges from 85-100 degrees C. It is possible to determine the composition of the DNA experimentally from its Tm because the Tm of DNA is directly proportional to the GC content of the DNA as graphically illustrated below. Measuring the composition of DNA The melting temperature is directly proportional to the composition of the DNA. This is also a measure of the hydrogen bonding content of the DNA. While the melting temperature does not tell us anything about the proteins that are coded by the DNA, it does tell us something about the tolerance of the organism in which the DNA is found. For example, thermophilic bacteria (those that survive at extremely high temperatures) have DNA with very high Tm values so that their DNA does not melt at their normal environmental temperature. As we will see later, this also has implications for how the same proteins can be made in two different organisms using DNA with vastly different compositions. In summary, for the hybridization of two strands of DNA and RNA the chains are antiparallel the two chains are held together by hydrogen bonding between bases the stability of the DNA is directly proportional to the number of hydrogen bonds between chains hydrogen bonding between strands of DNA and RNA follow the pattern A hydrogen bonded through two bonds to T in DNA A hydrogen bonded through two bonds to U in RNA G hydrogen bonded through three bonds to C in both DNA and RNA On the previous page you determined that the most stable complimentary base pairing takes place between A and T with two hydrogen bonds and between G and C with three hydrogen bonds in DNA. Combining that finding with the backbone information that described DNA as containing A, T, G, and C as the possible bases and A, U, G, and C as the possible bases in RNA, the complimentary base pairing in RNA would include A with U (examine the difference in structure between T and U) with two hydrogen bonds and G with C as described in DNA. In each case these comlimentary base pairings included a purine hydrogen bonded to a pyrimidine. This means that the distance between the attachment sites for the sugar in all the base pairs are identical giving uniform dimensions to the distance between the two backbones along the length of two strands that are hydrogen bonded together. Because T and U are identical in the hydrogen bonding that each makes with A, this means that a backbone (strand) of DNA can hydrogen bond with another strand of DNA but also with a strand of RNA. The ability of the strands of DNA and RNA to hydrogen bond with each other either as homodimers (DNA-DNA, RNA-RNA) or as heterodimers (DNA-RNA) is referred to as hybridization. As a general rule, hybridization will take place to maximize the number of hydrogen bonds that can be formed between two polynucleotide strands. However, another structural limitation is placed on the formation of the hydrogen bonds between two lengths of polynucleotide strands: the strands must be anti-parallel to each other. This means that the since the backbne has a 5' end and a 3' end, two strands hydridized to each other must have one strand oriented 5' to 3' and the complimentary strand 3' to 5' as illustrated below. 5'- G- C- A- U- A- G- -3' 3'- C- G- U- A- U- C- -5' This short duplex structure is anti-parallel and has 15 hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. As written this is a duplex of two strands of RNA. The figure below shows the same structure as a duplex of DNA. 5'- dG- dC- dA- dT- dA- dG- -3' 3'- dC- dG- dT- dA- dT- dC- -5' Can you generate a hybrid structure using the top 5' to 3' DNA strand from the figure above and create the appropriate RNA strand hybridized to it? The stability of double stranded DNA is due to two factors, hydrogen bonds and base stacking. Hydrogen bonds provide an attractive force between the strands while base stacking (van der Waals) stabilizes the helical structure. The Jmol below shows the stacking of the bases and illustrates the hydrogen bonding pattern for a GC basepair. The stability of the DNA is to some extent determined by the number of hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. Thus DNA with more GC base pairs is likely to be more stable than one with more AT base pairs. DNA Structure (B-helix)   Double Helix Structure Describe the major characteristics of the B-DNA double helix Building the Double Helix As described in the previous section, the hybridization of DNA and RNA results in the formation of: Double stranded DNA or RNA with Antiparallel orientation (5’ to 3’ against 3’ to 5’) with Uniform distance between the strands due to pairing of a purine with a pyrimidine (A with T (or U) and G with C). This representation of the ladder of a double stranded DNA is illustrated in the figure below on the left side. However, this secondary structure spontaneously forms a double helical coiled structure that is depicted on the right hand side of the figure below. This structure has several distinct features that characterize the dominant structure called B-DNA. Instructions: The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix which is represented by either a 2D image (middle) or a 3D Jmol (right). Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA Structure. Representations of Double Stranded DNA: From the Ladder to the Double Helix DNA Structure (B-helix) Use the interactive 3D Jmol image to explore these features of the double helix:. The two helical polynucleotide chains are coiled around a common axis The phosphate and ribose groups are on the outside The bases are directed toward the inside of the helix, and stack on the central helical axis. The planes of the bases are perpendicular to the axis of the helix The diameter of the helix is uniform and is 20 Angstroms The bases are stacked and separated by a uniform distance of 3.4 Angstroms. The following link is a video in which Dr. Brown explains how DNA and RNA are constructed from the backbones and bases. DNA has Grooves A predominate feature of the DNA double helix is the presence of grooves, or indentations, on the side of the helix. This grooves expose the edges of the basepairs, The grooves are called the major groove and the minor groove. Both grooves are deep and expose the edges of the bases to the external environment, making them accessible for protein binding. The minor groove is quite narrow (approximately 12 Angstroms across) and while the edges of the bases may be accessible to solvent and small molecules, they are generally not accessible to larger molecules. The major groove on the other hand is quite wide (approximately 22 Angstroms across) and is sufficiently wide to accommodate a protein alpha helix. Below is a side view of the B-DNA structure using a space filled model (left) next to a 3D Jmol image that will allow you to highlight each groove and determine which atoms from each basepair project into the groove. The nature of the atoms that are exposed in the grooves of the structure are important for the ability of proteins to recognize specific sequences of DNA. Discrimination of the different sequences must be made by having access to the bases inside the structure since the backbone structure is common to all sequences of DNA Side View of B-DNA Helix This space filled model of the B-DNA shows the major and minor grooves resulting from the formation of the double helix. DNA Structure (B-helix) Rotating this structure with your mouse will help you see the major and minor grooves in the helix. Bases pairs inside double helix Use the buttons on the above Jmol to see the location of a C-G and a T-A basepair in the double helix. As described in the previous section, the hybridization of DNA and RNA results in the formation of: Double stranded DNA or RNA with Antiparallel orientation (5’ to 3’ against 3’ to 5’) with Uniform distance between the strands due to pairing of a purine with a pyrimidine (A with T (or U) and G with C). This representation of the ladder of a double stranded DNA is illustrated in the figure below on the left side. However, this secondary structure spontaneously forms a double helical coiled structure that is depicted on the right hand side of the figure below. This structure has several distinct features that characterize the dominant structure called B-DNA. Instructions: The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix which is represented by either a 2D image (middle) or a 3D Jmol (right). Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA Structure. Representations of Double Stranded DNA: From the Ladder to the Double Helix DNA Structure (B-helix) Use the interactive 3D Jmol image to explore these features of the double helix:. The two helical polynucleotide chains are coiled around a common axis The phosphate and ribose groups are on the outside The bases are directed toward the inside of the helix, and stack on the central helical axis. The planes of the bases are perpendicular to the axis of the helix The diameter of the helix is uniform and is 20 Angstroms The bases are stacked and separated by a uniform distance of 3.4 Angstroms. The following link is a video in which Dr. Brown explains how DNA and RNA are constructed from the backbones and bases. A predominate feature of the DNA double helix is the presence of grooves, or indentations, on the side of the helix. This grooves expose the edges of the basepairs, The grooves are called the major groove and the minor groove. Both grooves are deep and expose the edges of the bases to the external environment, making them accessible for protein binding. The minor groove is quite narrow (approximately 12 Angstroms across) and while the edges of the bases may be accessible to solvent and small molecules, they are generally not accessible to larger molecules. The major groove on the other hand is quite wide (approximately 22 Angstroms across) and is sufficiently wide to accommodate a protein alpha helix. Below is a side view of the B-DNA structure using a space filled model (left) next to a 3D Jmol image that will allow you to highlight each groove and determine which atoms from each basepair project into the groove. The nature of the atoms that are exposed in the grooves of the structure are important for the ability of proteins to recognize specific sequences of DNA. Discrimination of the different sequences must be made by having access to the bases inside the structure since the backbone structure is common to all sequences of DNA Side View of B-DNA Helix This space filled model of the B-DNA shows the major and minor grooves resulting from the formation of the double helix. DNA Structure (B-helix) Rotating this structure with your mouse will help you see the major and minor grooves in the helix. Bases pairs inside double helix Use the buttons on the above Jmol to see the location of a C-G and a T-A basepair in the double helix.   Overview of DNA and RNA The Role of DNA and RNA This section begins our description of the structure and function of DNA and RNA. The ultimate tertiary structures of RNA and DNA are dependent on both the similarities and differences in the primary structure of each of the polymers. Both DNA and RNA are linear polymers of building blocks. Each block contains a planer nucleotide base that is joined to a sugar, either a deoxyribose in the case of DNA or a ribose in the case of RNA. Each block is joined by a oxygen-phosphate-oxygen bridge. The alternating ribose-phosphate-ribose is referred to as the backbone of the nucleic acid polymer, in much the same way the N, alpha-Carbon, and carbonyl atoms in an amino acid form the backbone of a protein. Similarly, the nucleotide bases are analogous to the amino acid sidechains. Protein and Nucleic Acid Structures The main features of a protein (top) and a nucleic acid (bottom) polymer are illustrated. Both polymers contain repeating units (amino acids, ribo-bases) linked by bonds (peptide, phosphodiester) to give linear polymers. The mainchain atoms form the linear chain. The sidechains project off of the mainatoms, these are either amino acid sidechains (proteins) or bases (nucleic acids). There is also a defined direction to the chain. In the case of proteins the free amino terminus defines the beginning, and the sequence is simply the order of the amino acids, named here by their sidechains (side1-side2...). In the case of nucleic acids, the ribose has a 5' end and a 3' end. The 5' end is considered to be the beginning and the nucleic acid sequence is given as the order of the bases, beginning at the 5' end. As with proteins, the bases in the nucleic acid can interact with each other to form complex structures. The most important type of interaction between the bases is hydrogen bonding. If bases on two strands have complimentary hydrogen bonding properties they can form a basepair. Double stranded DNA consists of two anti-parallel hydrogen bonded strands. RNA can also exist as an anti-parallel two stranded structure or it can assume more complicated structures, such as the tRNA molecule shown on the previous page. The detailed chemical structure of DNA and RNA will be explored in more detail in the following pages. This section begins our description of the structure and function of DNA and RNA. The ultimate tertiary structures of RNA and DNA are dependent on both the similarities and differences in the primary structure of each of the polymers. Both DNA and RNA are linear polymers of building blocks. Each block contains a planer nucleotide base that is joined to a sugar, either a deoxyribose in the case of DNA or a ribose in the case of RNA. Each block is joined by a oxygen-phosphate-oxygen bridge. The alternating ribose-phosphate-ribose is referred to as the backbone of the nucleic acid polymer, in much the same way the N, alpha-Carbon, and carbonyl atoms in an amino acid form the backbone of a protein. Similarly, the nucleotide bases are analogous to the amino acid sidechains. Protein and Nucleic Acid Structures The main features of a protein (top) and a nucleic acid (bottom) polymer are illustrated. Both polymers contain repeating units (amino acids, ribo-bases) linked by bonds (peptide, phosphodiester) to give linear polymers. The mainchain atoms form the linear chain. The sidechains project off of the mainatoms, these are either amino acid sidechains (proteins) or bases (nucleic acids). There is also a defined direction to the chain. In the case of proteins the free amino terminus defines the beginning, and the sequence is simply the order of the amino acids, named here by their sidechains (side1-side2...). In the case of nucleic acids, the ribose has a 5' end and a 3' end. The 5' end is considered to be the beginning and the nucleic acid sequence is given as the order of the bases, beginning at the 5' end. As with proteins, the bases in the nucleic acid can interact with each other to form complex structures. The most important type of interaction between the bases is hydrogen bonding. If bases on two strands have complimentary hydrogen bonding properties they can form a basepair. Double stranded DNA consists of two anti-parallel hydrogen bonded strands. RNA can also exist as an anti-parallel two stranded structure or it can assume more complicated structures, such as the tRNA molecule shown on the previous page. The detailed chemical structure of DNA and RNA will be explored in more detail in the following pages.   Z-DNA Be able to define the functions of each of the classes of lipids. Z-DNA - conformation narrow left handed   Challenges Differentiate the multiple origins of replication that are used to reduce the time of replication of Eukaryotic chromosomes. Describe one method of editing that takes place during DNA synthesis. Specify how telomerase uses the rules for DNA synthesis to overcome shortening of the chromosome. Explain how the the length of DNA amplified during PCR is defined. Discuss how competitive binding is used in DNA sequencing using dideoxy-NTPs. Solving Challenges within the Rules The Origin of Replication – where to start The Challenge: To initiate the DNA replication of a chromosome the appropriate substrate conditions must be met as described previously. How long the process of replication takes is also important to the cell. How genomes of variable sizes can be totally replicated within the appropriate life cycle time of the cell is a significant challenge. Bacterial chromosomes have a single point of origin for replication The origin of replication has been described as a specific DNA sequence to which initiator protein (DnaA) binds and initiates the process of creating the open complex for synthesis. For a typical prokaryotic (bacterial) chromosome there is one origin of replication and synthesis proceeds at a rate of approximately 500 bp(base pairs)/sec. A bp or base pair is the unit of length of DNA measured in single nucleotides or hydrogen bonded base pairs along the polymer chain. Thus if a typical bacterial chromosome is 2x10e6 (two million) bp in length then the replication time of the chromosome would be about 30 minutes which is consistent with the life cycle of the typical bacterial being 30 to 40 minutes. Eukaryotic chromosomes have multiple points of origin for replication The replication rate for the eukaryotic replication fork has been measured to be approximately 50 bp/sec. This means that for a eukaryotic chromosome of 10e8 bp to completely replicate starting at one origin of replication it would take approximately 23 days. While we know that the life-cycles of eukaryotic cells are extremely variable, the S-phase, the period of time during the eukaryotic life-cycle when DNA is replicated, typically last 8 hours. To explain the enormous difference in time scale, it has been found that the eukaryotic chromosome has multiple origins of replication. The eukaryotic replication units have upwards of 80 origins which means the replication time is reduced to approximately 7 hrs. What if DNA polymerase makes a mistake? The Challenge: DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA at rates up to 500 bp/sec. There are basically three types of mistakes that the enzyme can make during the synthesis: substitution of an incorrect base, insertion of an extra base or failure to insert a base resulting in a deletion. The consequences of these errors will be apparent as we move toward the discussion of DNA transcription and RNA Translation. In the context of Replication it is important to touch on at least a couple of the means by which the system corrects errors or reduces the frequency of errors. Editing the Synthesis DNA polymerases are members of a very interesting family of enzymes because of the multi functional nature of their activity. As has been discussed previously, they are capable of synthesizing DNA given the appropriate substrate. They have their own activity to remove RNA and/or DNA in front of the synthesis as described on the lagging strand of the replication fork. Equally important to the organism is the ability to edit errors during synthesis by either preventing the incorporation of the incorrect base and/or by removing an incorrectly incorporated base before the next base is added. These editing functions can reduce the error frequency by 2 orders of magnitude. However, even this editing function does not get the error rate to an acceptable number for survival of an organism. In addition to editing during synthesis, there is also monitoring of the DNA for missed errors resulting from replication and for post-replication damage to the DNA. In each of these cases the process involves cutting one of the strands of the DNA specifically creating a condition by which a DNA polymerase can replace the error or damaged DNA followed by ligation of the nicked DNA using DNA ligase. It is to be noted that while different proteins may be used, the basic process is the same and follows the direction/rules dictated by the mechanism of the specific enzymes. The combination of these other editing and repair functions reduces the error rate by another 2 orders of magnitude thus reducing the error frequency to an acceptable level. Following the rules Understanding the process/mechanism of DNA replication has allowed researchers to understand how certain DNA repair functions are conducted and to develop new tools that have revolutionized our ability to gain information from DNA. Overcoming Chromosome Shortening During replication of circular chromosomes, such as in bacteria, the leading strand of synthesis from one replication fork eventually meets the lagging strand of synthesis for the other replication fork and there is complete synthesis of the entire chromosome. For linear chromosomes this same process happens between two origins of replication. However at the end of the linear chromosomes, the telomeres, the lagging strand does not completely replicate to match the length of DNA generated on the leading strand. Thus for repeated replication of the chromosomes during multiple cell divisions, this means that the chromosomes are shortened with each cycle of replication. Since DNA synthesis is always unidirectional from 5’ to 3’, it is necessary to lengthen the 3’ end of the chromosome such that primer directed synthesis can take place to lengthen the shorter 5’ end of the chromosome. While the staggered end of the chromosome is not avoided, the net length of the chromosome is recovered or even lengthened. The diagrams below demonstrate how lengthening of the chromosome can be accomplished using the enzyme telomerase. The telomerase enzyme is a polymerase like enzyme that carries its own template with the template having overlap complementarity with the 3’ end of the chromosome. The criteria for polymerization are met, a template and a primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, and the telomerase lengthens the 3’ strand of the chromosome. This process of lengthening is repeated until a the normal replication process lays down a RNA primer using the primase enzyme, DNA polymerase synthesizes new DNA from the 3’ end of the RNA primer and DNA ligase joins the newly synthesized DNA to the 5’ end of the chromosome. Process of Telomerase lengthening the 3’ strand of the chromosome. Being creative with the rules Two tools that have become integral parts of the study of modern biology were developed through the simple understanding of how the DNA replication process works. At the beginning of this unit three structural requirements for the substrate of DNA polymerase were described. Satisfying those requirements is the basis for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), used to amplify segments of DNA, and the Sanger DNA sequencing method used in sequencing the human genome as well as others. Polymerase Chain Reaction Characterization of large numbers of microorganisms, rapid screening for genetic diseases and identification of individuals or species from very small amounts of tissues or cells requires a means to amplify a specific sequence of DNA for further manipulation. Previously this would have required growing large quantities of cells containing the DNA or obtaining large quantities of the tissue. DNA replication is the process of doubling the original amount of DNA. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is simply a method by which DNA replication is repeated through many cycles. In the same way that doubling a bacterial cell through 20 cycles will generate a million copies of the bacteria, replication of DNA through 20 cycles will amplify the amount of DNA by a million fold. View this PCR tutorial for a quick overview of the process. (©Sumanas, Inc.) View PCR tutorial PCR is limited by the length of DNA that can be repeatedly replicated by DNA polymerase. Different polymerases and different conditions are described to amplify DNA of varying lengths. Routinely, segments of DNA from 500 to 1000 bp in length are easily replicated. The segment of DNA to be replicated is defined by the position of the primers that define the start of the replication on each strand. These are referred to as the forward primer and the reverse primer. The double stranded DNA to be amplified is melted by raising the temperature high enough to fully melt the DNA creating single stranded DNA. The sample is cooled in the presence of the primers and each primer binds to its complementary strand. The appropriate substrate conditions for DNA polymerase binding and synthesis are now in place. DNA polymerase is added with the dNTPs and synthesis of DNA proceeds for as long as the reaction is allowed to progress before either the time of the reaction ends or the DNA polymerase falls off the substrate. The temperature is raised again to melt the DNA and create a single stranded template. Because DNA polymerase will generally denature and irreversibly inactivate at these elevated temperatures it is necessary to add fresh DNA polymerase at each cycle when the temperature is lowered during primer attachment. To avoid repetitive addition of a very expensive enzyme after each cycle and to make automation of the process feasible, there was an advantage to finding a DNA polymerase that survives high temperatures and in fact is active at high temperatures. Such an enzyme was found from thermophilic bacteria (bacteria that thrive at extremely high temperatures). One such enzyme, taq DNA polymerase from thermos aquaticus, is optimally active around 75 degrees and can withstand temperatures as high as 100 degrees without denaturing. Thus the PCR reaction can be performed in a closed tube with DNA to be amplified, taq DNA polymerase, excess dNTPs, and excess amounts of the forward and reverse primers. The reaction tube is put in an instrument called a thermocycler that can be programmed to automatically raise and lower the reaction temperature. Now the temperature is raised to form single stranded DNA, lowered to bind the primers and DNA polymerase with the correct substrate again replicates the DNA. After 20 cycles of this process with each cycle doubling the number of duplex DNA strands present, there will be 1, 048,576 copies of the DNA present. DNA Sequencing Current methods of DNA sequencing rely on understanding the substrate requirements of DNA polymerase and the concept of competition. To sequence DNA as with PCR it is necessary to create single stranded DNA that will act as the template. It is generally required that to ensure valid DNA sequence, a double stranded segment of DNA should be sequenced in both directions using primers at each of sequence to be defined. These primers are the equivalent of the forward and reverse primers of PCR. However, where PCR replicates both strands simultaneously, DNA sequencing is performed on each strand individually. Starting with the single stranded template and the bound primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, the conditions are set for DNA polymerase to replicate the DNA. If all four dNTPs were added at this point simple replication of the strand of DNA would occur and no information would be gained. However, if one of the dNTPs was substituted by a NTP that had no hydroxyl on either the 2’ or the 3’ position, a dideoxyNTP (ddNTP), it would be incorporated into the growing DNA strand through the 5’ position in a complementary position opposite its complementary base on the template strand but synthesis from that point forward would be terminated due to the absence of a hydroxyl on the 3’ position. The requirement for synthesis by DNA polymerase has been lost. The dideoxyNTP is referred to as a suicide substrate. If complete replacement of dATP with ddATP were made, then the first time a T were encountered in the template strand, DNA polymerase would incorporate ddATP and all synthesis would halt. If however, a mixture of dATP and ddATP were present, then when the first T were encountered in the template, the dATP and ddATP would compete for the active site of DNA polymerase. If dATP is incorporated, synthesis continues to the next nucleotide and if ddTAP is incorporated synthesis halts for that one strand of DNA. Thus in a population of template strands, a fragment of DNA starting at the primer and ending at each T would be generated with the length of the fragment in nucleotide units defines the location of the T in the template strand. If this experiment is performed for each individual nucleotide, the complete sequence of the template can be accomplished. The Origin of Replication – where to start The Challenge: To initiate the DNA replication of a chromosome the appropriate substrate conditions must be met as described previously. How long the process of replication takes is also important to the cell. How genomes of variable sizes can be totally replicated within the appropriate life cycle time of the cell is a significant challenge. Bacterial chromosomes have a single point of origin for replication The origin of replication has been described as a specific DNA sequence to which initiator protein (DnaA) binds and initiates the process of creating the open complex for synthesis. For a typical prokaryotic (bacterial) chromosome there is one origin of replication and synthesis proceeds at a rate of approximately 500 bp(base pairs)/sec. A bp or base pair is the unit of length of DNA measured in single nucleotides or hydrogen bonded base pairs along the polymer chain. Thus if a typical bacterial chromosome is 2x10e6 (two million) bp in length then the replication time of the chromosome would be about 30 minutes which is consistent with the life cycle of the typical bacterial being 30 to 40 minutes. Eukaryotic chromosomes have multiple points of origin for replication The replication rate for the eukaryotic replication fork has been measured to be approximately 50 bp/sec. This means that for a eukaryotic chromosome of 10e8 bp to completely replicate starting at one origin of replication it would take approximately 23 days. While we know that the life-cycles of eukaryotic cells are extremely variable, the S-phase, the period of time during the eukaryotic life-cycle when DNA is replicated, typically last 8 hours. To explain the enormous difference in time scale, it has been found that the eukaryotic chromosome has multiple origins of replication. The eukaryotic replication units have upwards of 80 origins which means the replication time is reduced to approximately 7 hrs. What if DNA polymerase makes a mistake? The Challenge: DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA at rates up to 500 bp/sec. There are basically three types of mistakes that the enzyme can make during the synthesis: substitution of an incorrect base, insertion of an extra base or failure to insert a base resulting in a deletion. The consequences of these errors will be apparent as we move toward the discussion of DNA transcription and RNA Translation. In the context of Replication it is important to touch on at least a couple of the means by which the system corrects errors or reduces the frequency of errors. Editing the Synthesis DNA polymerases are members of a very interesting family of enzymes because of the multi functional nature of their activity. As has been discussed previously, they are capable of synthesizing DNA given the appropriate substrate. They have their own activity to remove RNA and/or DNA in front of the synthesis as described on the lagging strand of the replication fork. Equally important to the organism is the ability to edit errors during synthesis by either preventing the incorporation of the incorrect base and/or by removing an incorrectly incorporated base before the next base is added. These editing functions can reduce the error frequency by 2 orders of magnitude. However, even this editing function does not get the error rate to an acceptable number for survival of an organism. In addition to editing during synthesis, there is also monitoring of the DNA for missed errors resulting from replication and for post-replication damage to the DNA. In each of these cases the process involves cutting one of the strands of the DNA specifically creating a condition by which a DNA polymerase can replace the error or damaged DNA followed by ligation of the nicked DNA using DNA ligase. It is to be noted that while different proteins may be used, the basic process is the same and follows the direction/rules dictated by the mechanism of the specific enzymes. The combination of these other editing and repair functions reduces the error rate by another 2 orders of magnitude thus reducing the error frequency to an acceptable level. Following the rules Understanding the process/mechanism of DNA replication has allowed researchers to understand how certain DNA repair functions are conducted and to develop new tools that have revolutionized our ability to gain information from DNA. Overcoming Chromosome Shortening During replication of circular chromosomes, such as in bacteria, the leading strand of synthesis from one replication fork eventually meets the lagging strand of synthesis for the other replication fork and there is complete synthesis of the entire chromosome. For linear chromosomes this same process happens between two origins of replication. However at the end of the linear chromosomes, the telomeres, the lagging strand does not completely replicate to match the length of DNA generated on the leading strand. Thus for repeated replication of the chromosomes during multiple cell divisions, this means that the chromosomes are shortened with each cycle of replication. Since DNA synthesis is always unidirectional from 5’ to 3’, it is necessary to lengthen the 3’ end of the chromosome such that primer directed synthesis can take place to lengthen the shorter 5’ end of the chromosome. While the staggered end of the chromosome is not avoided, the net length of the chromosome is recovered or even lengthened. The diagrams below demonstrate how lengthening of the chromosome can be accomplished using the enzyme telomerase. The telomerase enzyme is a polymerase like enzyme that carries its own template with the template having overlap complementarity with the 3’ end of the chromosome. The criteria for polymerization are met, a template and a primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, and the telomerase lengthens the 3’ strand of the chromosome. This process of lengthening is repeated until a the normal replication process lays down a RNA primer using the primase enzyme, DNA polymerase synthesizes new DNA from the 3’ end of the RNA primer and DNA ligase joins the newly synthesized DNA to the 5’ end of the chromosome. Process of Telomerase lengthening the 3’ strand of the chromosome. Being creative with the rules Two tools that have become integral parts of the study of modern biology were developed through the simple understanding of how the DNA replication process works. At the beginning of this unit three structural requirements for the substrate of DNA polymerase were described. Satisfying those requirements is the basis for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), used to amplify segments of DNA, and the Sanger DNA sequencing method used in sequencing the human genome as well as others. Polymerase Chain Reaction Characterization of large numbers of microorganisms, rapid screening for genetic diseases and identification of individuals or species from very small amounts of tissues or cells requires a means to amplify a specific sequence of DNA for further manipulation. Previously this would have required growing large quantities of cells containing the DNA or obtaining large quantities of the tissue. DNA replication is the process of doubling the original amount of DNA. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is simply a method by which DNA replication is repeated through many cycles. In the same way that doubling a bacterial cell through 20 cycles will generate a million copies of the bacteria, replication of DNA through 20 cycles will amplify the amount of DNA by a million fold. View this PCR tutorial for a quick overview of the process. (©Sumanas, Inc.) View PCR tutorial PCR is limited by the length of DNA that can be repeatedly replicated by DNA polymerase. Different polymerases and different conditions are described to amplify DNA of varying lengths. Routinely, segments of DNA from 500 to 1000 bp in length are easily replicated. The segment of DNA to be replicated is defined by the position of the primers that define the start of the replication on each strand. These are referred to as the forward primer and the reverse primer. The double stranded DNA to be amplified is melted by raising the temperature high enough to fully melt the DNA creating single stranded DNA. The sample is cooled in the presence of the primers and each primer binds to its complementary strand. The appropriate substrate conditions for DNA polymerase binding and synthesis are now in place. DNA polymerase is added with the dNTPs and synthesis of DNA proceeds for as long as the reaction is allowed to progress before either the time of the reaction ends or the DNA polymerase falls off the substrate. The temperature is raised again to melt the DNA and create a single stranded template. Because DNA polymerase will generally denature and irreversibly inactivate at these elevated temperatures it is necessary to add fresh DNA polymerase at each cycle when the temperature is lowered during primer attachment. To avoid repetitive addition of a very expensive enzyme after each cycle and to make automation of the process feasible, there was an advantage to finding a DNA polymerase that survives high temperatures and in fact is active at high temperatures. Such an enzyme was found from thermophilic bacteria (bacteria that thrive at extremely high temperatures). One such enzyme, taq DNA polymerase from thermos aquaticus, is optimally active around 75 degrees and can withstand temperatures as high as 100 degrees without denaturing. Thus the PCR reaction can be performed in a closed tube with DNA to be amplified, taq DNA polymerase, excess dNTPs, and excess amounts of the forward and reverse primers. The reaction tube is put in an instrument called a thermocycler that can be programmed to automatically raise and lower the reaction temperature. Now the temperature is raised to form single stranded DNA, lowered to bind the primers and DNA polymerase with the correct substrate again replicates the DNA. After 20 cycles of this process with each cycle doubling the number of duplex DNA strands present, there will be 1, 048,576 copies of the DNA present. DNA Sequencing Current methods of DNA sequencing rely on understanding the substrate requirements of DNA polymerase and the concept of competition. To sequence DNA as with PCR it is necessary to create single stranded DNA that will act as the template. It is generally required that to ensure valid DNA sequence, a double stranded segment of DNA should be sequenced in both directions using primers at each of sequence to be defined. These primers are the equivalent of the forward and reverse primers of PCR. However, where PCR replicates both strands simultaneously, DNA sequencing is performed on each strand individually. Starting with the single stranded template and the bound primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, the conditions are set for DNA polymerase to replicate the DNA. If all four dNTPs were added at this point simple replication of the strand of DNA would occur and no information would be gained. However, if one of the dNTPs was substituted by a NTP that had no hydroxyl on either the 2’ or the 3’ position, a dideoxyNTP (ddNTP), it would be incorporated into the growing DNA strand through the 5’ position in a complementary position opposite its complementary base on the template strand but synthesis from that point forward would be terminated due to the absence of a hydroxyl on the 3’ position. The requirement for synthesis by DNA polymerase has been lost. The dideoxyNTP is referred to as a suicide substrate. If complete replacement of dATP with ddATP were made, then the first time a T were encountered in the template strand, DNA polymerase would incorporate ddATP and all synthesis would halt. If however, a mixture of dATP and ddATP were present, then when the first T were encountered in the template, the dATP and ddATP would compete for the active site of DNA polymerase. If dATP is incorporated, synthesis continues to the next nucleotide and if ddTAP is incorporated synthesis halts for that one strand of DNA. Thus in a population of template strands, a fragment of DNA starting at the primer and ending at each T would be generated with the length of the fragment in nucleotide units defines the location of the T in the template strand. If this experiment is performed for each individual nucleotide, the complete sequence of the template can be accomplished.   DNA Synthesis Describe the formation of the Open Complex at the origin of replication. Explain how the appropriate substrate for DNA polymerase at the replication fork is established. Distinguish the difference between continuous and discontinuous DNA synthesis. Expound on why Okazaki fragments are formed on the lagging strand. Describe the process of connecting the Okazaki fragments into a continuous strand of DNA. Initiation of synthesis from double stranded DNA Having explored the requirements for DNA polymerase, it is clear that the prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes fail the first requirement of a single stranded sequence of DNA. Therefore to initiate DNA replication it is necessary to create the conditions that will allow DNA polymerase to carry out DNA synthesis. First the DNA must be opened by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs and unwinding the DNA. This is initiated by a protein called the initiator protein or DnaA that recognizes a specific DNA sequence called the origin of replication, binds to the sequence and opens up the sequence to create a replication bubble (open complex). An enzyme called a helicase binds to the open complex and extends the melted region of the double stranded DNA to further open the replication bubble. There now exists a single stranded segment of DNA exposed on both chains of the DNA double helix. A small protein called SSB (Single Stranded Binding protein) coats the open complex. The Open Complex With formation of an open complex, one of the requirements for DNA polymerase is satisfied: single stranded DNA is generated. At either end of the open complex where the single stranded and double stranded DNA meet, a structure referred to as the replication fork exists. From this point we will focus on the process of replication at one of the replication forks. Remember that the replication will be occurring simultaneously from both forks in opposite directions. To allow the binding of DNA polymerase, a second requirement must be met for the structure of the substrate. An enzyme called Primase synthesizes a short (approximately 10 nucleotides), complementary RNA primer on each strand of the DNA in a 5’ to 3’ unidirectional fashion. This complex of DNA and protein at the replication fork is referred to as the replisome. Replisome at one fork The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase have been satisfied and synthesis begins. Helicase continues to melt the DNA in front of DNA polymerase. As single stranded DNA is generated between the ‘back’ of the RNA primer on one strand and the opening replication fork, a new segment of RNA primer is laid down near the opening fork and DNA polymerase synthesizes a new complementary strand of DNA from the primer toward 5’ end of the existing primer and stops. This segment of DNA that is not connected to the next segment is referred to as an Okazaki Fragment. Synthesis on this lagging strand is said to be discontinuous since it is generated in uniform lengths of DNA starting from one primer and stopping before the next RNA primer. Synthesis on the opposite strand is a continuous uninterrupted process starting from the initial primer and continuing as long as the DNA continues to open up at the replication fork. This strand on which continuous synthesis takes place is referred to as the Leading Strand. Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand The following animation depicts the complete process of DNA replication. In the animation you should be able to identify each of the stages of synthesis on each of the strands. At the end of the synthesis you will see that the leading strand has a continuous double helix generated while the lagging strand has a discontinuous set of Okazaki fragments that must be connected before the synthesis is complete. To accomplish this mending of the DNA, a separate DNA polymerase binds to the ‘nick’ left in the DNA between the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA and the 5’ end of the RNA primer. The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase are met even though there is no apparent single stranded DNA present. The DNA polymerase removes the RNA primer and a few nucleotides of DNA in front of it while simultaneously synthesizing DNA on the 3’ end of the existing DNA. This process is referred to as nick translation. When only DNA is present, the DNA polymerase releases from the DNA leaving a nick in the DNA between two DNA segments. DNA polymerase does not have a function to join the two ends of the DNA together and thus a separate enzyme, DNA Ligase, recognizes the nick in the DNA and links the 3’ end of the one segment to the 5’ end of the next segment. This process of DNA replication continues until the entire sequence of DNA is synthesized. The process is fundamentally the same in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Having explored the requirements for DNA polymerase, it is clear that the prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes fail the first requirement of a single stranded sequence of DNA. Therefore to initiate DNA replication it is necessary to create the conditions that will allow DNA polymerase to carry out DNA synthesis. First the DNA must be opened by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs and unwinding the DNA. This is initiated by a protein called the initiator protein or DnaA that recognizes a specific DNA sequence called the origin of replication, binds to the sequence and opens up the sequence to create a replication bubble (open complex). An enzyme called a helicase binds to the open complex and extends the melted region of the double stranded DNA to further open the replication bubble. There now exists a single stranded segment of DNA exposed on both chains of the DNA double helix. A small protein called SSB (Single Stranded Binding protein) coats the open complex. The Open Complex With formation of an open complex, one of the requirements for DNA polymerase is satisfied: single stranded DNA is generated. At either end of the open complex where the single stranded and double stranded DNA meet, a structure referred to as the replication fork exists. From this point we will focus on the process of replication at one of the replication forks. Remember that the replication will be occurring simultaneously from both forks in opposite directions. To allow the binding of DNA polymerase, a second requirement must be met for the structure of the substrate. An enzyme called Primase synthesizes a short (approximately 10 nucleotides), complementary RNA primer on each strand of the DNA in a 5’ to 3’ unidirectional fashion. This complex of DNA and protein at the replication fork is referred to as the replisome. Replisome at one fork The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase have been satisfied and synthesis begins. Helicase continues to melt the DNA in front of DNA polymerase. As single stranded DNA is generated between the ‘back’ of the RNA primer on one strand and the opening replication fork, a new segment of RNA primer is laid down near the opening fork and DNA polymerase synthesizes a new complementary strand of DNA from the primer toward 5’ end of the existing primer and stops. This segment of DNA that is not connected to the next segment is referred to as an Okazaki Fragment. Synthesis on this lagging strand is said to be discontinuous since it is generated in uniform lengths of DNA starting from one primer and stopping before the next RNA primer. Synthesis on the opposite strand is a continuous uninterrupted process starting from the initial primer and continuing as long as the DNA continues to open up at the replication fork. This strand on which continuous synthesis takes place is referred to as the Leading Strand. Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand The following animation depicts the complete process of DNA replication. In the animation you should be able to identify each of the stages of synthesis on each of the strands. At the end of the synthesis you will see that the leading strand has a continuous double helix generated while the lagging strand has a discontinuous set of Okazaki fragments that must be connected before the synthesis is complete. To accomplish this mending of the DNA, a separate DNA polymerase binds to the ‘nick’ left in the DNA between the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA and the 5’ end of the RNA primer. The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase are met even though there is no apparent single stranded DNA present. The DNA polymerase removes the RNA primer and a few nucleotides of DNA in front of it while simultaneously synthesizing DNA on the 3’ end of the existing DNA. This process is referred to as nick translation. When only DNA is present, the DNA polymerase releases from the DNA leaving a nick in the DNA between two DNA segments. DNA polymerase does not have a function to join the two ends of the DNA together and thus a separate enzyme, DNA Ligase, recognizes the nick in the DNA and links the 3’ end of the one segment to the 5’ end of the next segment. This process of DNA replication continues until the entire sequence of DNA is synthesized. The process is fundamentally the same in prokaryotes and eukaryotes.   DNA Synthesis Semi-Conservative DNA Synthesis Initiation of synthesis from double stranded DNA Having explored the requirements for DNA polymerase, it is clear that the prokaryotic and eukaryotic genome fails the first requirement of a single stranded sequence of DNA. Therefore to initiate DNA replication it is necessary to create the conditions that will allow DNA polymerase to carry out DNA synthesis. First the DNA must be opened by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs and unwinding the DNA. This is initiated by n protein called the initiator protein or DnaA that recognizes a specific DNA sequence called the origin of replication, binds to the sequence and opens up the sequence to create a replication bubble (open complex). An enzyme called a helicase binds to the open complex and extends the melted region of the double stranded DNA to further open the replication bubble. There now exists a single stranded segment of DNA exposed on both chains of the DNA double helix. A small protein called SSB (Single Stranded Binding protein) coats the open complex. [insert screen shot of open complex at the end of the SSB protein segment of the simulation on DNA replication page] >Without SSB present, what would you expect to happen to the open complex? With formation of an open complex, one of the requirements for DNA polymerase is satisfied: single stranded DNA is generated. At either end of the open complex where the single stranded and double stranded DNA meet, a structure referred to as the replication fork exists. From this point we will focus on the process of replication at a replication fork. Remember that the replication will be occurring simultaneously from both forks in opposite directions. To allow the binding of DNA polymerase, a second requirement must be met for the structure of the substrate to allow binding of the enzyme. An enzyme called Primase synthesizes a short (approximately 10 nucleotides), complementary RNA primer on each strand of the DNA in a 5’ to 3’ unidirectional fashion. [insert screen shot of replisome at one fork from DNA replication simulation stopped at point where Primase has added the RNA primer but DNA polymerase as not yet arrived.] Based on the illustration of the replisome given above with the RNA primers shown in red, once the primase has left, where do you expect DNA polymerase to start its action? [Note: the segment in the animation that has formation of replisome should stop at point where primase has laid down the red RNA primer and the DNA polymerase has arrived but not started synthesis] The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase have been satisfied and synthesis begins. Helicase continues to melt the DNA in front of DNA polymerase. What do you notice about the direction of synthesis on each strand at the replication fork? If you allow the synthesis to proceed for the addition of 10 nucleotides, draw the structure of the replication fork at that time. 4. As single stranded DNA is generated between the ‘back’ of the RNA primer on one strand and the opening replication fork, a new segment of RNA primer is laid down near the opening fork and DNA polymerase synthesizes a new complementary strand of DNA from the primer toward 5’ end of the existing primer and stops. This segment of DNA that is not connected to the next segment is referred to as an Okazaki Fragment. Synthesis on this lagging strand is said to be discontinuous since it is generated in uniform lengths of DNA starting from one primer and stopping before the next RNA primer. 5. Synthesis on the opposite strand is a continuous uninterrupted process starting from the initial primer and continuing as long as the DNA continues to open up at the replication fork. This strand on which continuous synthesis takes place is referred to as the Leading Strand. [Insert illustration from DNA replication that shows multiple Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand and a continuous strand on the leading strand at a replication fork.] The following animation depicts the complete process of DNA replication. In the animation you should be able to identify each of the stages of synthesis on each of the strands. At the end of the synthesis you will see that the leading strand has a continuous double helix generated while the lagging strand has a discontinuous set of Okazaki fragments that must be connected before the synthesis is complete. To accomplish this mending of the DNA, a separate DNA polymerase binds to the ‘nick’ left in the DNA between the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA and the 5’ end of the RNA primer. The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase are met even though there is no apparent single stranded DNA present. The DNA polymerase removes the RNA primer and a few nucleotides of DNA in front of it while simultaneously synthesizing DNA on the 3’ end of the existing DNA. This process is referred to as nick translation. Once only DNA is present, the DNA polymerase releases from the DNA leaving a nick in the DNA between two DNA segments. DNA polymerase does not have a function to join the two ends of the DNA together and thus a separate enzyme, DNA Ligase, recognizes the nick in the DNA and links the 3’ end of the one segment to the 5’ end of the next segment. This process of DNA replication continues until the entire sequence of DNA is synthesized. The process is fundamentally the same in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. obsolete:DNA sythesis starts with the recognition of the 3' end of a primer attached to a DNA template. DNA polymerase binds to the 3' end of the primer and builds a complementary strand of DNA in the 5' to 3' direction. The new strand is a complementary copy of the template strand and satisfies the requirement of being antiparallel. The remainder of this section is under development; however, it is hoped that the animations gven below will provide some help in understanding the process. Unidirectional DNA Synthesis Unidirectional synthesis of DNA along a template from the 3' end of a primer. Building the Complementary Strand DNA Polymerase binds to DNA at the 3' end of the primer and builds a complimentary sequence. [Insert “Did I Get This?”] Initiation of synthesis from double stranded DNA Having explored the requirements for DNA polymerase, it is clear that the prokaryotic and eukaryotic genome fails the first requirement of a single stranded sequence of DNA. Therefore to initiate DNA replication it is necessary to create the conditions that will allow DNA polymerase to carry out DNA synthesis. First the DNA must be opened by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs and unwinding the DNA. This is initiated by n protein called the initiator protein or DnaA that recognizes a specific DNA sequence called the origin of replication, binds to the sequence and opens up the sequence to create a replication bubble (open complex). An enzyme called a helicase binds to the open complex and extends the melted region of the double stranded DNA to further open the replication bubble. There now exists a single stranded segment of DNA exposed on both chains of the DNA double helix. A small protein called SSB (Single Stranded Binding protein) coats the open complex. [insert screen shot of open complex at the end of the SSB protein segment of the simulation on DNA replication page] >Without SSB present, what would you expect to happen to the open complex? With formation of an open complex, one of the requirements for DNA polymerase is satisfied: single stranded DNA is generated. At either end of the open complex where the single stranded and double stranded DNA meet, a structure referred to as the replication fork exists. From this point we will focus on the process of replication at a replication fork. Remember that the replication will be occurring simultaneously from both forks in opposite directions. To allow the binding of DNA polymerase, a second requirement must be met for the structure of the substrate to allow binding of the enzyme. An enzyme called Primase synthesizes a short (approximately 10 nucleotides), complementary RNA primer on each strand of the DNA in a 5’ to 3’ unidirectional fashion. [insert screen shot of replisome at one fork from DNA replication simulation stopped at point where Primase has added the RNA primer but DNA polymerase as not yet arrived.] Based on the illustration of the replisome given above with the RNA primers shown in red, once the primase has left, where do you expect DNA polymerase to start its action? [Note: the segment in the animation that has formation of replisome should stop at point where primase has laid down the red RNA primer and the DNA polymerase has arrived but not started synthesis] The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase have been satisfied and synthesis begins. Helicase continues to melt the DNA in front of DNA polymerase. What do you notice about the direction of synthesis on each strand at the replication fork? If you allow the synthesis to proceed for the addition of 10 nucleotides, draw the structure of the replication fork at that time. 4. As single stranded DNA is generated between the ‘back’ of the RNA primer on one strand and the opening replication fork, a new segment of RNA primer is laid down near the opening fork and DNA polymerase synthesizes a new complementary strand of DNA from the primer toward 5’ end of the existing primer and stops. This segment of DNA that is not connected to the next segment is referred to as an Okazaki Fragment. Synthesis on this lagging strand is said to be discontinuous since it is generated in uniform lengths of DNA starting from one primer and stopping before the next RNA primer. 5. Synthesis on the opposite strand is a continuous uninterrupted process starting from the initial primer and continuing as long as the DNA continues to open up at the replication fork. This strand on which continuous synthesis takes place is referred to as the Leading Strand. [Insert illustration from DNA replication that shows multiple Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand and a continuous strand on the leading strand at a replication fork.] The following animation depicts the complete process of DNA replication. In the animation you should be able to identify each of the stages of synthesis on each of the strands. At the end of the synthesis you will see that the leading strand has a continuous double helix generated while the lagging strand has a discontinuous set of Okazaki fragments that must be connected before the synthesis is complete. To accomplish this mending of the DNA, a separate DNA polymerase binds to the ‘nick’ left in the DNA between the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA and the 5’ end of the RNA primer. The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase are met even though there is no apparent single stranded DNA present. The DNA polymerase removes the RNA primer and a few nucleotides of DNA in front of it while simultaneously synthesizing DNA on the 3’ end of the existing DNA. This process is referred to as nick translation. Once only DNA is present, the DNA polymerase releases from the DNA leaving a nick in the DNA between two DNA segments. DNA polymerase does not have a function to join the two ends of the DNA together and thus a separate enzyme, DNA Ligase, recognizes the nick in the DNA and links the 3’ end of the one segment to the 5’ end of the next segment. This process of DNA replication continues until the entire sequence of DNA is synthesized. The process is fundamentally the same in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. obsolete:DNA sythesis starts with the recognition of the 3' end of a primer attached to a DNA template. DNA polymerase binds to the 3' end of the primer and builds a complementary strand of DNA in the 5' to 3' direction. The new strand is a complementary copy of the template strand and satisfies the requirement of being antiparallel. The remainder of this section is under development; however, it is hoped that the animations gven below will provide some help in understanding the process. Unidirectional DNA Synthesis Unidirectional synthesis of DNA along a template from the 3' end of a primer. Building the Complementary Strand DNA Polymerase binds to DNA at the 3' end of the primer and builds a complimentary sequence. [Insert “Did I Get This?”]   Intro to DNA Replication As discussed at the beginning of this unit, modern molecular biology has developed a Central Dogma that describes a series of processes starting with DNA and ending with the production of a protein using the genetic code. This Central Dogma is diagrammed in the figure below. The initiation of this process is DNA Replication, highlighted in red, which describes the copying of the information existing in DNA to new DNA. One of the most important processes that a cell performs before it can divide is to faithfully replicate its chromosome. While there are differences between prokaryotes and eukaryotes, there are great similarities in the mechanism by which they replicate their DNA. This unit will describe this mechanism of DNA replication In addition, an understanding of the enzymes that are involved in faithfully copying the DNA has also lead to their use in applications that have advanced our knowledge of genomes, the information they contain and how they are used. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and DNA sequencing using dideoxynucleotides have revolutionized our ability to work with small amounts of DNA and generate immense amounts of sequence information in a very short time. The understanding of the basic principles involved in DNA replication have also lead to our understanding of such topics as DNA repair and chromosome extension.   DNA Replication Describe the results of semiconservative replication. Explain the substrate requirements for DNA synthesis by DNA polymerase. Characterize the direction of DNA synthesis. DNA replication is the process by which DNA is copied resulting in a faithful replicate of the original double stranded DNA. Key to the inheritance of the code for materials produced and used in a cell, DNA replication must be faithful thus not allowing or minimizing errors during the process and it must generate new DNA that can be transmitted to the next generation. Because DNA replication generates a copy of the original, it is referred to as DNA dependent DNA synthesis. It is dependent on DNA because it must have a template to use in making the copy and the result is a new strand of double stranded (duplex) DNA. Semi-conservative Replication The process of DNA replication requires that the original DNA act as a template for the newly formed DNA. How the new DNA acts as a template could occur in multiple ways. As depicted below the double stranded DNA (anti-parallel strands indicated by the grey and opposite polarity blue strand) could be completely copied leaving the original strands of DNA intact (grey) and yielding a newly synthesized double strand DNA containing two new strands (blue). This is referred to as conservative replication. The second model of DNA replication starts with the same double stranded DNA but the products each contain one of the original strands and a complementary newly synthesized strand. This is referred to as semi-conservative replication. Biological organisms have been shown to replicate their DNA by semi-conservative synthesis. The “Learn More…” that follows shows the Meselson-Stahl experiment that was performed to prove that semi-conservative replication is the mechanism within biological systems. Semi-conservative vs Conservative replication models DNA synthesis DNA synthesis in biological systems is a very directed process controlled by specific enzymes that both dictate where synthesis begins and the exact structural conditions required to undertake DNA synthesis. Knowledge of these conditions and the process involved in DNA synthesis has become the basis for understanding other biological processes involving DNA and in the design of a set of tools essential to the advancement of the study of modern molecular biology. DNA polymerases (setting the rules) DNA polymerase is an enzyme that has very specific substrate requirements and thus controls where the synthesis of DNA can take place. An understanding of the basic mechanism of this enzyme will make the understanding of how DNA replication works become clear. As with any enzyme, DNA polymerase has a very specific set of requirements for recognition of its substrate. For DNA polymerase the substrate is single stranded DNA not double stranded DNA. Thus DNA polymerase is not able to bind to or recognize an intact genome but rather it uses each single strand of DNA as a template. While DNA polymerase requires single stranded DNA as a template, it does not have the ability to start anywhere on the strand and initiate de novo synthesis. The active site of the polymerase requires a segment of DNA or RNA bound in a complimentary manner to the single stranded template as an initiation point for the synthesis reaction. This segment of DNA or RNA is generally referred to as the primer. If you examine the structure of either DNA or RNA there are two places that a new deoxy-nucleotide can be added to extend the length of the complementary strand. While DNA synthesis could be from either end of the primer, during replication using the enzyme DNA polymerase the synthesis is restricted by the enzyme to growth in only one direction. Deoxy-nucleotides are only added to the 3’ end of the primer and thus synthesis is unidirection from 5’ to 3’. For synthesis to proceed, the enzyme imposes a third restriction on the substrate. Not only does it require a DNA template and a primer, but the primer must have a free, 3’ hydroxyl group for the addition of the next deoxy-nucleotide. And finally, all four deoxy-nucleotide triphosphates must be present to completely synthesis the complementary strand of DNA. For DNA synthesis (replication) this means dATP, dTTP, dCTP, and dGTP must be present. Collectively these are referred to as dNTPs (deoxy-Nucleotide TriPhosphates). More than one DNA polymerase enzyme is known and each carries out a specific function depending on the situation. For example, DNA polymerase III is the enzyme used in replicating a genome while DNA polymerase I is used in DNA repair. Even with clear differences as to when each of the DNA polymerases is used during the replication of DNA, the basic substrate requirements are the same. The following diagram depicts the structural requirements for the operation of DNA polymerase enzymes. Perfect Substrate for DNA Polymerase Synthesis (the making of new DNA) Once the appropriate structural requirements for the synthesis of DNA are met, DNA synthesis occurs continuously in a unidirection process from 5’ to 3’ along the template. The following animation demonstrates the building of a complementary strand using the components required by DNA polymerase. This process can take place wherever the initial conditions for operation of DNA polymerase exist. Building the Complementary Strand DNA Polymerase binds to DNA at the 3' end of the primer and builds a complementary sequence. DNA replication is the process by which DNA is copied resulting in a faithful replicate of the original double stranded DNA. Key to the inheritance of the code for materials produced and used in a cell, DNA replication must be faithful thus not allowing or minimizing errors during the process and it must generate new DNA that can be transmitted to the next generation. Because DNA replication generates a copy of the original, it is referred to as DNA dependent DNA synthesis. It is dependent on DNA because it must have a template to use in making the copy and the result is a new strand of double stranded (duplex) DNA. Semi-conservative Replication The process of DNA replication requires that the original DNA act as a template for the newly formed DNA. How the new DNA acts as a template could occur in multiple ways. As depicted below the double stranded DNA (anti-parallel strands indicated by the grey and opposite polarity blue strand) could be completely copied leaving the original strands of DNA intact (grey) and yielding a newly synthesized double strand DNA containing two new strands (blue). This is referred to as conservative replication. The second model of DNA replication starts with the same double stranded DNA but the products each contain one of the original strands and a complementary newly synthesized strand. This is referred to as semi-conservative replication. Biological organisms have been shown to replicate their DNA by semi-conservative synthesis. The “Learn More…” that follows shows the Meselson-Stahl experiment that was performed to prove that semi-conservative replication is the mechanism within biological systems. Semi-conservative vs Conservative replication models DNA synthesis DNA synthesis in biological systems is a very directed process controlled by specific enzymes that both dictate where synthesis begins and the exact structural conditions required to undertake DNA synthesis. Knowledge of these conditions and the process involved in DNA synthesis has become the basis for understanding other biological processes involving DNA and in the design of a set of tools essential to the advancement of the study of modern molecular biology. DNA polymerases (setting the rules) DNA polymerase is an enzyme that has very specific substrate requirements and thus controls where the synthesis of DNA can take place. An understanding of the basic mechanism of this enzyme will make the understanding of how DNA replication works become clear. As with any enzyme, DNA polymerase has a very specific set of requirements for recognition of its substrate. For DNA polymerase the substrate is single stranded DNA not double stranded DNA. Thus DNA polymerase is not able to bind to or recognize an intact genome but rather it uses each single strand of DNA as a template. While DNA polymerase requires single stranded DNA as a template, it does not have the ability to start anywhere on the strand and initiate de novo synthesis. The active site of the polymerase requires a segment of DNA or RNA bound in a complimentary manner to the single stranded template as an initiation point for the synthesis reaction. This segment of DNA or RNA is generally referred to as the primer. If you examine the structure of either DNA or RNA there are two places that a new deoxy-nucleotide can be added to extend the length of the complementary strand. While DNA synthesis could be from either end of the primer, during replication using the enzyme DNA polymerase the synthesis is restricted by the enzyme to growth in only one direction. Deoxy-nucleotides are only added to the 3’ end of the primer and thus synthesis is unidirection from 5’ to 3’. For synthesis to proceed, the enzyme imposes a third restriction on the substrate. Not only does it require a DNA template and a primer, but the primer must have a free, 3’ hydroxyl group for the addition of the next deoxy-nucleotide. And finally, all four deoxy-nucleotide triphosphates must be present to completely synthesis the complementary strand of DNA. For DNA synthesis (replication) this means dATP, dTTP, dCTP, and dGTP must be present. Collectively these are referred to as dNTPs (deoxy-Nucleotide TriPhosphates). More than one DNA polymerase enzyme is known and each carries out a specific function depending on the situation. For example, DNA polymerase III is the enzyme used in replicating a genome while DNA polymerase I is used in DNA repair. Even with clear differences as to when each of the DNA polymerases is used during the replication of DNA, the basic substrate requirements are the same. The following diagram depicts the structural requirements for the operation of DNA polymerase enzymes. Perfect Substrate for DNA Polymerase Synthesis (the making of new DNA) Once the appropriate structural requirements for the synthesis of DNA are met, DNA synthesis occurs continuously in a unidirection process from 5’ to 3’ along the template. The following animation demonstrates the building of a complementary strand using the components required by DNA polymerase. This process can take place wherever the initial conditions for operation of DNA polymerase exist. Building the Complementary Strand DNA Polymerase binds to DNA at the 3' end of the primer and builds a complementary sequence.   Intro to DNA Transcription The second phase of the Central Dogma is the process of transcription, which is summarized as DNA directed RNA synthesis. This unit will describe the process of DNA transcription and the different categories of products and how each is processed. The discussion will be organized around: The organization of the gene expression system into Operons, The initiation of transcription at special sequences called Promoters, The unidirectional RNA sythesis using RNA polymerase and how it differs from replication, and The post-transcriptional processing of the end products of transcription   RNA Synthesis Describe the difference between a eukaryotic and prokaryotic Operon Describe the similarities between the functioning of DNA plymerase and RNA polymerase Describe the differences between the substrate requirements for DNA polymerase and RNA polymerase Explain the difference between a weak and a strong promoter including the basis for the difference in "strength" of the promoter Describe the steps in the process of transcription (RNA synthesis) starting with RNA polymerase binding to the promoter and ending with the release of polymerase from the terminator Name the products of transcription and differentiate each from the others Transcription The process of DNA transcription is described as DNA-directed RNA synthesis. This process, which takes place in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, has many similarities with DNA replication. The enzyme to catalyze the process is RNA Polymerase that likewise has some characteristics similar to those of DNA polymerase used in replication but it also has significant differences. The DNA must be unwound starting at a specific DNA sequence Replication – Origin of Replication Transcription – The Promoter The process requires a template that is DNA Replication – Complementary copies of both strands are created simultaneously Transcription – A complementary copy is made of one strand The process does not require a primer Replication – A primer with a 3’ hydroxyl is required for DNA polymerase Transcription – No primer is required for RNA polymerase Synthesis is unidirectional in the 5’ to 3’ direction Synthesis requires four nucleotide triphosphates Replication – deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates include dATP, dGTP, dCTP, dTTP Transcription – ribonucleotide triphosphates include ATP, GTP, CTP, UTP The Operon The organization of the genetic information on the chromosomes of prokaryotes and eukaryotes is different. In each case, as indicated below, the sequence for initiation of transcription is the Promoter and the sequence signaling the end of transcription is the Terminator. However, in eukaryotes there is generally one gene that codes for one product under the control of a single promoter. In contrast, prokaryotes generally have multiple genes, each coding for a separate product, under the control of a single promoter. This unit of a promoter, a terminator and the intervening gene or genes is called an Operon. The operon also contains the controlling elements for the operon. The control of expression of an operon is the topic for a separate unit. Eukaryotic Operon Prokaryotic Operon The Promoter RNA polymerase is an example of a quaternary structure composed of a core protein for the synthesis the complementary RNA strand and a subunit, the Sigma subunit, that first binds to the promoter region of the Operon and creates an open complex by unwinding the double stranded DNA. The promoter region of the operon is critical in defining how much or the frequency with which transcription of an operon takes place. Promoters have different sequences. The sigma subunit binds to the different promoter sequences with different affinities. In the illustration below, the sigma subunit binds to both of the promoters and a dissociation constant, Kd, can be written for each binding. Different promoters result in different Kd values. Promoters can be characterized as being strong or weak promoters depending on their affinity for RNA polymerase. The result of a strong promoter with a high affinity (tight binding) to RNA polymerase is a greater frequency of starting transcription from that promoter. Therefore, more product from transcription initiated at a strong promoter is possible compared to product formation initiated from a weak promoter in the same amount of time. RNA Synthesis Once RNA polymerase binds to the promoter, initiation of RNA synthesis or Transcription proceeds. The following animation depicts the steps of transcription. The Products of Transcription The product of the process of transcription is RNA. There are three distinctly different RNA products that result from transcription based on their function within the cell. Ribosomal-RNA (rRNA) is a large defined length of RNA that when processed is folded into a tertiary structure that is the scaffolding for the structure of the ribosome. The ribosome is a protein-RNA complex quaternary structure where protein synthesis (translation) takes place. Messenger-RNA (mRNA) is a variable length of RNA whose length is dependent on the length of the coding needed to produce a protein by translation. This RNA is the message that carries the information that codes for the synthesis of a protein. It has a relatively short lifetime in the cell. Transfer-RNA (tRNA) is a set of short RNA molecules generally 75-80 nucleotides in length. Each tRNA molecule is specific for transporting a specific amino acid to the ribosome during protein synthesis (translation). All of the tRNA molecules have a common, compact tertiary structure. Each of the RNA classes (rRNA, mRNA, and tRNA) is produced during transcription using a different RNA polymerase. rRNA – RNA polymerase I mRNA – RNA polymerase II tRNA – RNA polymerase III Bioselectivity describes the discrimination of a specific RNA polymerase for a specific promoter yielding different RNA products. Equilibrium binding of the polymerase with the promoter explains the differential production of products using the same polymerase and different promoter sequences.   Post Transcription Describe a post-transcriptional modification that takes place with each of the classes of transcription products. Describe the role of the 5'-cap and the 3'-polyA tail in the functioning of mRNA. Describe the process of RNA splicing including the splicesome, introns, exons and lariats. Describe where the information (signal) for splicing is and why it might lead to alternative splicing. Post-Transcriptional Modification The products of transcription, rRNA, tRNA and mRNA, are each used for different functions within the cell but are all essential to protein synthesis. They each also undergo change or modification before they are used to carry out their specific function. This process of change after transcription from DNA to RNA is called post-transcriptional modification. For ribosomal-RNA (rRNA)the modification involves cutting of the original long segment of RNA transcript into fragments. The processing of the RNA takes place in the nucleus and the fragments are used in the nucleoli where ribosomes are assembled. For transfer-RNA (tRNA), the RNA transcript has a segment of the 5’ end removed, a trinucleotide that is common to all tRNAs (ACC) added to the 3’ end, and a short segment of RNA spliced out of the middle of the RNA sequence. In addition, several of the bases in the structure are chemically modified after the final sequence is generated. The most extensively modified transcript is messenger-RNA (mRNA) in eukaryotic organisms. For this reason, the primary transcript or mRNA before it is modified is referred to as pre-mRNA. After transcription a “5’cap” is added to the transcript. This “cap” is a GTP that is added through the 5’ position of the GTP to the 5’ end of the transcript. This results in a free 3’OH of the guanine nucleotide on the 5’ end of the transcript. As we will see in the next unit, the 5’-cap is a signal used in binding the eukaryotic message to the ribosome to initiate protein synthesis. A second post-transcriptional modification is the addition of a “polyA tail” onto the 3’ end of the transcript. A specific enzyme adds 100 to 500 adenine nucleotides to the 3’ end. Once the mRNA is transported to the cytoplasm from the nucleus, it is thought that the polyA tail acts as a clock to measure the lifetime of the message. A 3’- exonuclease is an enzyme that removes nucleotides one at a time from the 3’ end. If one assumes that it removes nucleotides at a constant rate, the message can be actively used from 3 minutes to 4-5 hours, depending on the length of the tail, before it becomes inactive due to the loss of the “tail.” The addition of the 5’-cap and the polyA tail are depicted in the figure above. But, one of the most intriguing post-transcriptional modifications is the splicing out of segments of the mRNA called Introns. Introns are sequences that do not code for protein, are interspersed in the original DNA and are removed from the RNA transcript by the process of splicing. The splicing is carried out by a complex (quaternary structure) of proteins referred to as the splicesome composed of SnRNPs (Small Nuclear RiboNucleoProteins). The segments of RNA that do code for protein are called Exons. Signaled by nucleotide sequences in the ends of the introns, the splicesome brings together the 3’ end of one exon with the 5’ end of the next exon and cuts out the intervening intron. The product is the end-to-end spliced exons and a segment of removed RNA that was the intron in the shape of a lariat. The figure above illustrates the process. After completion of the splicing, the mature mRNA is exported to the cytoplasm where it is used in protein synthesis (Translation). Introns do not exist in prokaryotes. Recently, research has found that a number of mRNA sequences undergo what is referred to as alternative-splicing. If normal splicing is from the 3’ end of one exon and the 5’ end of the immediately following exon, imagine the number of possible splices that could occur if the 3’ end of the exon could be joined to the 5’ end of any exon downstream from the first exon. For example, if an mRNA had three exons, 1, 2, and 3 in order, and two introns, the normal sequence of splicing would link exon 1 to exon 2 to exon 3. But it would be possible to link exon 1 to exon 3 to create a “new” protein with only two of the three exons. This allows a single gene with multiple exons to represent many different proteins. Errors in splicing have also been found to be the cause of certain diseases.   Intro to RNA Translation The final stage of the Central Dogma is translation, which is defined as RNA Directed Protein Synthesis. This process is unique in that it takes information from one type of polymer (RNA) and translates that linear information into the linear sequence of a totally different polymer, a protein. This unit will describe that process and the elements that are required to have it function. The discussion will be organized around, the Genetic Code and the use of the triplet code the role of transfer-RNA, messenger-RNA and the ribosome in translation the formation of the initiation complex, the elongation of the peptide, and the termination of synthesis, and the consequences of errors and presentation of mutations   Viewing jmols Example 1: DNA Double Helix Jmols from Modern Biology: unit 4-Basis of Molecular Biology, mod 9- Double Helix, p58 Web page directory path: _u4_molecularbiology/_m0_structures/x-oli-workbook_page/intro_Double_Helical.xml Instructions: The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix which is represented by either a 2D image (middle) or a 3D Jmol (right). Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA Structure. Representations of Double Stranded DNA: From the Ladder to the Double Helix DNA Structure (B-helix) Use the interactive 3D Jmol image to explore these features of the double helix:. The two helical polynucleotide chains are coiled around a common axis The phosphate and ribose groups are on the outside The bases are directed toward the inside of the helix, and stack on the central helical axis. The planes of the bases are perpendicular to the axis of the helix The diameter of the helix is uniform and is 20 Angstroms The bases are stacked and separated by a uniform distance of 3.4 Angstroms. Test: New DNA image :Structure of DNA double helix. On the left: Sugar-phosphate backbone is shown in yellow, specific bases pairing via hydrogen bonds (red lines) are colored in green and purple (A-T pair) and red and blue (C-G). On the left: Three-dimensional structure of DNA double helix. Instructions: The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix which is represented by either a 2D image (above) or a 3D Jmol (below). Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA Structure. DNA Structure (B-helix) Example 3: DNA structure and Jmol fo Molecular Genentics (p237) DNA Structure (B-helix) Rotating this structure with your mouse will help you see the major and minor grooves in the helix. Structure of DNA double helix. On the left: Sugar-phosphate backbone is shown in yellow, specific bases pairing via hydrogen bonds (red lines) are colored in green and purple (A-T pair) and red and blue (C-G). On the right: Three-dimensional structure of DNA double helix. Click on the checkboxes to highight the A-T and C-G basepairs. Click on 'Spin On' to automatically rotate the DNA helix structure. Graphic by Madeleine Price Ball (DNA chemical structure) CC-BY-SA-2.0 Jmols from Modern Biology: unit 4-Basis of Molecular Biology, mod 9- Double Helix, p58 Web page directory path: _u4_molecularbiology/_m0_structures/x-oli-workbook_page/intro_Double_Helical.xml Instructions: The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix which is represented by either a 2D image (middle) or a 3D Jmol (right). Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA Structure. Representations of Double Stranded DNA: From the Ladder to the Double Helix DNA Structure (B-helix) Use the interactive 3D Jmol image to explore these features of the double helix:. The two helical polynucleotide chains are coiled around a common axis The phosphate and ribose groups are on the outside The bases are directed toward the inside of the helix, and stack on the central helical axis. The planes of the bases are perpendicular to the axis of the helix The diameter of the helix is uniform and is 20 Angstroms The bases are stacked and separated by a uniform distance of 3.4 Angstroms. :Structure of DNA double helix. On the left: Sugar-phosphate backbone is shown in yellow, specific bases pairing via hydrogen bonds (red lines) are colored in green and purple (A-T pair) and red and blue (C-G). On the left: Three-dimensional structure of DNA double helix. Instructions: The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix which is represented by either a 2D image (above) or a 3D Jmol (below). Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA Structure. DNA Structure (B-helix) DNA Structure (B-helix) Rotating this structure with your mouse will help you see the major and minor grooves in the helix. Structure of DNA double helix. On the left: Sugar-phosphate backbone is shown in yellow, specific bases pairing via hydrogen bonds (red lines) are colored in green and purple (A-T pair) and red and blue (C-G). On the right: Three-dimensional structure of DNA double helix. Click on the checkboxes to highight the A-T and C-G basepairs. Click on 'Spin On' to automatically rotate the DNA helix structure. Graphic by Madeleine Price Ball (DNA chemical structure) CC-BY-SA-2.0   Nucleic Acid Functions and Location Nucleic acids are macromolecules that carry out two main functions in the cell: storage of genetic information and synthesis of proteins. Two types of nucleic acids specialize in these functions: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA). DNA is the genetic material that stores information for making proteins in all living organisms. Some viruses store their genetic information in RNA instead of DNA. This may seem as an exception to the universal use of DNA as genetic material; however, viruses are not cellular, and are not considered living organisms. DNA is found in the nucleus of eukaryotes and in two cellular organelles: chloroplasts, and mitochondria. Location of DNA in Cells Location of DNA in Prokaryotic Cells In prokaryotes, DNA is not enclosed in a separate compartment, but found in the cytoplasm. Bacteria Cell Regardless of where DNA is stored in the cell, it contains instructions for building proteins. For protein synthesis to occur, genetic information stored in DNA must first be copied into RNA. In eukaryotic cells, RNA is transported to the cytoplasm, where protein synthesis takes place. Thus, while both RNA and DNA can contain instructions for making proteins, DNA is used for storage of this information, while RNA is directly involved in making proteins. To understand in more detail how nucleic acids function in transmission of genetic information and in protein synthesis, you must first consider the structures of these molecules and the relationship between structure and function. In prokaryotes, DNA is not enclosed in a separate compartment, but found in the cytoplasm. Bacteria Cell   Nucleic Acids: Summary Summary Nucleic acids are molecules made up of repeating units of nucleotides that direct cellular activities such as cell division and protein synthesis. Each nucleotide is made up of a pentose sugar, a nitrogenous base, and a phosphate group. There are two types of nucleic acids: DNA and RNA. DNA carries the genetic blueprint of the cell and is passed on from parents to offspring. It has a double-helix structure with the two strands running in opposite directions and complementary to each other. RNA is composed of a single strand and it is involved in protein synthesis. RNA is composed of a pentose sugar (ribose), a nitrogenous base, and a phosphate group. ATP is a nucleotide composed of an adenine base, ribose sugar, and three phosphate groups; it provides energy for cellular activities. Key Terms Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of nucleic acids by taking the quiz linked below. DNA: deoxyribonucleic acid nitrogenous bases nucleic acid nucleotide Nucleus RNA: ribonucleic acid Nucleic acids are molecules made up of repeating units of nucleotides that direct cellular activities such as cell division and protein synthesis. Each nucleotide is made up of a pentose sugar, a nitrogenous base, and a phosphate group. There are two types of nucleic acids: DNA and RNA. DNA carries the genetic blueprint of the cell and is passed on from parents to offspring. It has a double-helix structure with the two strands running in opposite directions and complementary to each other. RNA is composed of a single strand and it is involved in protein synthesis. RNA is composed of a pentose sugar (ribose), a nitrogenous base, and a phosphate group. ATP is a nucleotide composed of an adenine base, ribose sugar, and three phosphate groups; it provides energy for cellular activities. Take some time to review the main concepts in this module. When you are ready, check your understanding of nucleic acids by taking the quiz linked below. DNA: deoxyribonucleic acid nitrogenous bases nucleic acid nucleotide Nucleus RNA: ribonucleic acid   Structure of Nucleic Acids: Nucleotides Nucleic Acid Building Blocks Like any polymer, nucleic acids are made up of repeating subunits or monomers. The subunits of nucleic acids are called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains three building blocks: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous base is a type of organic molecule that consists of one or two ring structures. Note that the term “base” is used here to refer to a specific part of the nucleic acid structure; the meaning is very different from the use of the term “base” in the discussion of pH and acid-base chemistry. There are five different nitrogenous bases that can be found in various nucleotides. In DNA, you will find these nitrogenous bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). In RNA, thymine is replaced by uracil (U). Nucleic Acid Structures Nucleotides can also differ in the type of sugar they contain. All sugars found in nucleotides are pentose sugars, which means they have five carbons; however, there can be different pentose sugars. For example, DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose. RNA, on the other hand, contains ribose. Finally, nucleotides can differ in the number of phosphate groups they contain. DNA and RNA nucleotides contain just one phosphate. But a very common nucleotide used for energy adenosine triphosphate (ATP) contains three phosphates. We will look at this molecule in greater detail in the Metabolism unit. Like any polymer, nucleic acids are made up of repeating subunits or monomers. The subunits of nucleic acids are called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains three building blocks: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous base is a type of organic molecule that consists of one or two ring structures. Note that the term “base” is used here to refer to a specific part of the nucleic acid structure; the meaning is very different from the use of the term “base” in the discussion of pH and acid-base chemistry. There are five different nitrogenous bases that can be found in various nucleotides. In DNA, you will find these nitrogenous bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). In RNA, thymine is replaced by uracil (U). Nucleic Acid Structures Nucleotides can also differ in the type of sugar they contain. All sugars found in nucleotides are pentose sugars, which means they have five carbons; however, there can be different pentose sugars. For example, DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose. RNA, on the other hand, contains ribose. Finally, nucleotides can differ in the number of phosphate groups they contain. DNA and RNA nucleotides contain just one phosphate. But a very common nucleotide used for energy adenosine triphosphate (ATP) contains three phosphates. We will look at this molecule in greater detail in the Metabolism unit.   Structure of Nucleic Acids: Nucleotides Nucleic Acid Building Blocks Like any polymer, nucleic acids are made up of repeating subunits or monomers. The subunits of nucleic acids are called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains three building blocks: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous base is a type of organic molecule that consists of one or two ring structures. Note that the term “base” is used here to refer to a specific part of the nucleic acid structure; the meaning is very different from the use of the term “base” in the discussion of pH and acid-base chemistry. There are five different nitrogenous bases that can be found in various nucleotides. In DNA, you will find these nitrogenous bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). In RNA, thymine is replaced by uracil (U). Nucleic Acid Structures Nucleotides can also differ in the type of sugar they contain. All sugars found in nucleotides are pentose sugars, which means they have five carbons; however, there can be different pentose sugars. For example, DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose. RNA, on the other hand, contains ribose. Finally, nucleotides can differ in the number of phosphate groups they contain. DNA and RNA nucleotides contain just one phosphate. But a very common nucleotide used for energy adenosine triphosphate (ATP) contains three phosphates. We will look at this molecule in greater detail in the Metabolism unit. Like any polymer, nucleic acids are made up of repeating subunits or monomers. The subunits of nucleic acids are called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains three building blocks: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous base is a type of organic molecule that consists of one or two ring structures. Note that the term “base” is used here to refer to a specific part of the nucleic acid structure; the meaning is very different from the use of the term “base” in the discussion of pH and acid-base chemistry. There are five different nitrogenous bases that can be found in various nucleotides. In DNA, you will find these nitrogenous bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). In RNA, thymine is replaced by uracil (U). Nucleic Acid Structures Nucleotides can also differ in the type of sugar they contain. All sugars found in nucleotides are pentose sugars, which means they have five carbons; however, there can be different pentose sugars. For example, DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose. RNA, on the other hand, contains ribose. Finally, nucleotides can differ in the number of phosphate groups they contain. DNA and RNA nucleotides contain just one phosphate. But a very common nucleotide used for energy adenosine triphosphate (ATP) contains three phosphates. We will look at this molecule in greater detail in the Metabolism unit.   Connecting Nucleotides Nucleic Acid Polymers Let’s examine the structure of a nucleic acid polymer. How are nucleotide building blocks connected to each other? The alternating "phosphate - sugar - phosphate" building blocks form a backbone of the linear polymer. Bases are attached to the backbone via the sugars and are equivalent to the “side chains” of amino acids in proteins. When nucleotides are linked end to end, they form a sugar-phosphate backbone. The nitrogenous bases are attached to the backbone via the sugar. Just as with proteins, a DNA (or RNA) strand has directionality: one end is different than the other. In the case of proteins, an amino group is found on one end and a carboxylate group is found on the other end. Since it is the order of bases that carries out the function of DNA (information storage), we often represent DNA as just a sequence of bases (GAGGCT) and do not bother representing the backbone. By convention, the first letter is the base at the 5’ (five prime) end of the DNA strand. Thus, the sequence GAGGCT is shorthand for 5’-GAGGCT-3’. Determine how this directionally occurs in DNA in the following learn by doing. Let’s examine the structure of a nucleic acid polymer. How are nucleotide building blocks connected to each other? The alternating "phosphate - sugar - phosphate" building blocks form a backbone of the linear polymer. Bases are attached to the backbone via the sugars and are equivalent to the “side chains” of amino acids in proteins. When nucleotides are linked end to end, they form a sugar-phosphate backbone. The nitrogenous bases are attached to the backbone via the sugar. Just as with proteins, a DNA (or RNA) strand has directionality: one end is different than the other. In the case of proteins, an amino group is found on one end and a carboxylate group is found on the other end. Since it is the order of bases that carries out the function of DNA (information storage), we often represent DNA as just a sequence of bases (GAGGCT) and do not bother representing the backbone. By convention, the first letter is the base at the 5’ (five prime) end of the DNA strand. Thus, the sequence GAGGCT is shorthand for 5’-GAGGCT-3’. Determine how this directionally occurs in DNA in the following learn by doing.   Connecting Nucleotides Nucleic Acid Polymers Let’s examine the structure of a nucleic acid polymer. How are nucleotide building blocks connected to each other? The alternating "phosphate - sugar - phosphate" building blocks form a backbone of the linear polymer. Bases are attached to the backbone via the sugars and are equivalent to the “side chains” of amino acids in proteins. When nucleotides are linked end to end, they form a sugar-phosphate backbone. The nitrogenous bases are attached to the backbone via the sugar. Just as with proteins, a DNA (or RNA) strand has directionality: one end is different than the other. In the case of proteins, an amino group is found on one end and a carboxylate group is found on the other end. Since it is the order of bases that carries out the function of DNA (information storage), we often represent DNA as just a sequence of bases (GAGGCT) and do not bother representing the backbone. By convention, the first letter is the base at the 5’ (five prime) end of the DNA strand. Thus, the sequence GAGGCT is shorthand for 5’-GAGGCT-3’. Determine how this directionally occurs in DNA in the following learn by doing. Let’s examine the structure of a nucleic acid polymer. How are nucleotide building blocks connected to each other? The alternating "phosphate - sugar - phosphate" building blocks form a backbone of the linear polymer. Bases are attached to the backbone via the sugars and are equivalent to the “side chains” of amino acids in proteins. When nucleotides are linked end to end, they form a sugar-phosphate backbone. The nitrogenous bases are attached to the backbone via the sugar. Just as with proteins, a DNA (or RNA) strand has directionality: one end is different than the other. In the case of proteins, an amino group is found on one end and a carboxylate group is found on the other end. Since it is the order of bases that carries out the function of DNA (information storage), we often represent DNA as just a sequence of bases (GAGGCT) and do not bother representing the backbone. By convention, the first letter is the base at the 5’ (five prime) end of the DNA strand. Thus, the sequence GAGGCT is shorthand for 5’-GAGGCT-3’. Determine how this directionally occurs in DNA in the following learn by doing.   Information Content of DNA How can a simple molecule made of repeating nucleotides contain all instructions for complicated living beings like ourselves? What component or feature of DNA can contain this information? It has to come from the bases! The backbone of all DNA molecules is the same. But there are only 4 bases found in DNA : G,A,C,T! The sequence of these 4 bases can provide all the instructions needed to build any living organism! It might be hard to imagine that 4 different “letters” can communicate so much information. But think about the English language, which can represent a huge amount of information using just 26 letters. Even more profound is the binary code used to write computer programs. This code contains only ones and zeros...and think of all the things your computer can do! The DNA alphabet can encode very complex instructions using just 4 letters, though the messages end up being really long. For example, the E. coli bacterium carries its genetic instructions in a DNA molecule that is more than 5 million nucleotides long. The human genome (all the DNA of an organism) is around 3 billion nucleotides divided up between 23 DNA molecules. The 23 different DNA molecules are known as chromosomes.   DNA Structure: Double Helix All DNA found in living organisms comes in sets of two polymers or strands, usually referred to as double-stranded DNA. Some viruses are an exception to this rule and contain single-stranded DNA as their genetic material. The discovery that DNA structure is a double helix (two strands wound around each other) is considered one of the greatest discoveries in science. Understanding of the structure of DNA opened up a whole new realm of biological and biomedical research (molecular biology) and led to the development of new technologies in science and medicine. Let’s examine the structure of DNA using the activity below. The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix, which is represented by either a 2D image (middle) or a 3D Jmol (right). Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA structure. Double Stranded DNA: From Ladder to Double Helix DNA Structure (B-helix) DNA structure is an antiparallel double helix: the two DNA strands run in opposite directions. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside, and the bases are on the inside of the helix. The two strands are held together by base pairing: hydrogen bonding between specific bases. Adenine (a purine) always pairs with thymine (a pyrimidine); guanine (a purine) always pairs with cytosine (a pyrimidine). These base pairing rules (A-T, G-C) are very important to the structure and function of DNA.   DNA Structure: Double Helix All DNA found in living organisms comes in sets of two polymers or strands, usually referred to as double-stranded DNA. Some viruses are an exception to this rule and contain single-stranded DNA as their genetic material. The discovery that DNA structure is a double helix (two strands wound around each other) is considered one of the greatest discoveries in science. Understanding of the structure of DNA opened up a whole new realm of biological and biomedical research (molecular biology) and led to the development of new technologies in science and medicine. Let’s examine the structure of DNA using the activity below. The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix, which is represented by either a 2D image (middle) or a 3D Jmol (right). Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA structure. Double Stranded DNA: From Ladder to Double Helix DNA Structure (B-helix) DNA structure is an antiparallel double helix: the two DNA strands run in opposite directions. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside, and the bases are on the inside of the helix. The two strands are held together by base pairing: hydrogen bonding between specific bases. Adenine (a purine) always pairs with thymine (a pyrimidine); guanine (a purine) always pairs with cytosine (a pyrimidine). These base pairing rules (A-T, G-C) are very important to the structure and function of DNA. View the short video below and then fill in the blanks in the paragraph below about the discovery of the DNA structure. View the short video below and then fill in the blanks in the paragraph below about the discovery of the DNA structure.   DNA Structure: Double Helix All DNA found in living organisms comes in sets of two polymers or strands, usually referred to as double-stranded DNA. Some viruses are an exception to this rule and contain single-stranded DNA as their genetic material. The discovery that DNA structure is a double helix (two strands wound around each other) is considered one of the greatest discoveries in science. Understanding of the structure of DNA opened up a whole new realm of biological and biomedical research (molecular biology) and led to the development of new technologies in science and medicine. Let’s examine the structure of DNA using the activity below. The base-paired ladder shown on the left coils into a double helix, which is represented by either a 2D image (middle) or a 3D Jmol (right). Use the buttons to explore the various features of the DNA structure. Double Stranded DNA: From Ladder to Double Helix DNA Structure (B-helix) DNA structure is an antiparallel double helix: the two DNA strands run in opposite directions. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside, and the bases are on the inside of the helix. The two strands are held together by base pairing: hydrogen bonding between specific bases. Adenine (a purine) always pairs with thymine (a pyrimidine); guanine (a purine) always pairs with cytosine (a pyrimidine). These base pairing rules (A-T, G-C) are very important to the structure and function of DNA.   DNA Replication Bases form pairs (base pairs) in a very specific way. The figure shows how A (Adenine) pairs with T (Thymine) and G (Guanine) pairs with C (Cytosine). This is an example of bioselectivity: T pairs with A, and not with C. The molecular recognition occurs because of the ability of bases to form specific hydrogen bonds: atoms align just right to make hydrogen bonds possible. Specific base pairing in DNA is the key to copying the DNA or reading the information in DNA: if we know the sequence of one strand, we can use base pairing rules to build the other strand! The process of copying DNA is called DNA replication (think of making a copy or a replica!). Before a cell divides, it must first make a copy of its DNA using DNA replication. The enzyme catalyzing DNA replication is called DNA polymerase (makes the new DNA polymer). One double stranded DNA molecule when replicated, will become two double stranded molecules, each containing one original strand and one newly synthesized strand. The synthesis of the new DNA strand can only happen in one direction: from the 5’to the 3’ end,that is the new bases are always added to the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA. The ‘learn by doing” activity below will help you understand the process of DNA replication in more detail.   DNA vs. RNA Structure Two of the most important nucleic acids are DNA and RNA. DNA contains the instructions for building proteins. RNA, on the other hand, is involved in actually building the proteins. Because of these different functions, the structures of the two molecules are very different. Compare DNA and RNA and answer the questions about these structures.   DNA vs. RNA Structure Two of the most important nucleic acids are DNA and RNA. DNA contains the instructions for building proteins. RNA, on the other hand, is involved in actually building the proteins. Because of these different functions, the structures of the two molecules are very different. Compare DNA and RNA and answer the questions about these structures.   Central Dogma The term “central dogma of molecular biology” has been historically used to describe the flow of genetic information in living organisms. Both DNA and RNA are informational molecules – the information is contained in the order of bases. We next consider what this information is and how it flows. Information contained in DNA is used in two ways: it must be transmitted to the next generation of cells and used to make proteins. Prior to cell division, all DNA must be copied (DNA replication), so that the two daughter cells have the same DNA as the original cell. Thus, the information carried in the DNA is precisely duplicated to maintain consistency throughout the person’s body and throughout the person's life. Information contained in DNA is organized into genes and each gene contains instructions for making a functional product: an RNA molecule or a protein. The process of making the functional gene products is called gene expression. Different cells can contain the same DNA, but express different genes and produce different proteins. For example, red blood cells produce protein hemoglobin required for delivery of oxygen throughout the body. Nerve cells contain the same DNA, but the hemoglobin gene is not expressed. Instead, nerve cells make RNA copies of the genes that encode proteins required for signaling. Both a nerve cell (left) and a red blood cell (right) develop from cells that have identical DNA, but the expression of different genes leads to structural and functional differences between the cells The animation below illustrates the process of gene expression in eukaryotes.. This short animation summarizes the processes central to Molecular Biology. The DNA double strand separates, the RNA Polymerase moves along the strand and transcribes the information from one strand of the DNA to a strand of RNA, and the RNA leaves the nucleus where its sequence is translated to a protein sequence on the ribosome. During gene expression, information stored in DNA is first copied (or transcribed) into RNA in a process called transcription (think about scribes copying books in medieval times). Only one of the two DNA strands is transcribed and the order of bases in RNA is determined by the base paring of the ribonucleotides with the DNA. Since in RNA, the base T is absent and U is present instead, A of the DNA will pair with U in the RNA. If the transcribed DNA strand has a sequence: 5’...AATTGCGC...3’ ,3’...TTAACGCG...5’ and the bottom stand is used to produce the copy, the sequence of the RNA will be 5’ ...AAUUGCG...3’. Note that it has exactly the same sequence as the upper DNA strand, but with T replaced by U. In eukaryotic cells, RNA molecules are transported from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, where proteins are made. RNA that contains instructions for making proteins is called messenger RNA (mRNA). The “message” contained in the order of bases in the mRNA specifies the order of amino acids in a protein. The process of protein synthesis is called translation because the information is converted from one chemical form (nucleic acids) to another (amino acids), analogous to translation from one language to another. In the cytoplasm, mRNA binds to ribosomes, catalytic machines made up of specialized proteins and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). rRNA is one type of functional RNA does not code for protein and is not translated. Transfer RNA (tRNA) is anther such molecule. Each tRNA carries a particular amino acid and has a special recognition site comprised of three bases that can bind to a specific sequence of bases on mRNA. Base pairing between three bases on tRNA and three bases on mRNA ensures that the correct amino acid is added to the growing protein chain. During translation, ribosome slides along the mRNA and catalyzes formation of peptide bonds between amino acids positioned by the tRNAs. The overall flow of information from DNA to proteins is summarized as follows:   Hydrogen Bonding of Bases Hydrogen Bonding Between Bases The following is an interactive simulation that allows you to form hydrogen bonding pairs between the appropriate bases in DNA and RNA that would be allowed in the formation of the double helical structure. You should apply the definition of the hydrogen bond to form all possible hydrogen bonds in any pair of bases you choose. All of the possible hyrogen bonds may be useful later as we explore multiple structures especially for RNA. The focus of this exercise is to itentify bonding partners that will be optimal in the formation of the DNA and RNA helical structures. Bonding Patterns of Bases Select the proper base from the right to bond with the example on the left. Draw the hydrogen bonds between then and then click the Done when you have drawn all of the bonds and then identify the bases. The following is an interactive simulation that allows you to form hydrogen bonding pairs between the appropriate bases in DNA and RNA that would be allowed in the formation of the double helical structure. You should apply the definition of the hydrogen bond to form all possible hydrogen bonds in any pair of bases you choose. All of the possible hyrogen bonds may be useful later as we explore multiple structures especially for RNA. The focus of this exercise is to itentify bonding partners that will be optimal in the formation of the DNA and RNA helical structures. Bonding Patterns of Bases Select the proper base from the right to bond with the example on the left. Draw the hydrogen bonds between then and then click the Done when you have drawn all of the bonds and then identify the bases.   Hybridization of DNA/RNA Segments Hybridization of DNA and RNA On the previous page you determined that the most stable complimentary base pairing takes place between A and T with two hydrogen bonds and between G and C with three hydrogen bonds in DNA. Combining that finding with the backbone information that described DNA as containing A, T, G, and C as the possible bases and A, U, G, and C as the possible bases in RNA, the complimentary base pairing in RNA would include A with U (examine the difference in structure between T and U) with two hydrogen bonds and G with C as described in DNA. In each case these comlimentary base pairings included a purine hydrogen bonded to a pyrimidine. This means that the distance between the attachment sites for the sugar in all the base pairs are identical giving uniform dimensions to the distance between the two backbones along the length of two strands that are hydrogen bonded together. Because T and U are identical in the hydrogen bonding that each makes with A, this means that a backbone (strand) of DNA can hydrogen bond with another strand of DNA but also with a strand of RNA. The ability of the strands of DNA and RNA to hydrogen bond with each other either as homodimers (DNA-DNA, RNA-RNA) or as heterodimers (DNA-RNA) is referred to as hybridization. As a general rule, hybridization will take place to maximize the number of hydrogen bonds that can be formed between two polynucleotide strands. However, another structural limitation is placed on the formation of the hydrogen bonds between two lengths of polynucleotide strands: the strands must be anti-parallel to each other. This means that the since the backbne has a 5' end and a 3' end, two strands hydridized to each other must have one strand oriented 5' to 3' and the complimentary strand 3' to 5' as illustrated below. 5'- G- C- A- U- A- G- -3' 3'- C- G- U- A- U- C- -5' This short duplex structure is anti-parallel and has 15 hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. As written this is a duplex of two strands of RNA. The figure below shows the same structure as a duplex of DNA. 5'- dG- dC- dA- dT- dA- dG- -3' 3'- dC- dG- dT- dA- dT- dC- -5' Can you generate a hybrid structure using the top 5' to 3' DNA strand from the figure above and create the appropriate RNA strand hybridized to it? Stability of DNA - Base Stacking and Hydrogen Bonds The stability of double stranded DNA is due to two factors, hydrogen bonds and base stacking. Hydrogen bonds provide an attractive force between the strands while base stacking (van der Waals) stabilizes the helical structure. The Jmol below shows the stacking of the bases and illustrates the hydrogen bonding pattern for a GC basepair. The stability of the DNA is to some extent determined by the number of hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. Thus DNA with more GC base pairs is likely to be more stable than one with more AT base pairs. DNA Structure (B-helix) Experimentally it is possible to measure this stability by following the melting of DNA with increasing temperature. Below is a graph of the melting of DNA that coincides with an increase in the ultraviolet (UV) absorbance of the DNA at 260 nm. The increase in absorbance is referred to as the hyperchromic effect and is a measure of the breaking of the hydrogen bonds between the bases and the separation of the two strands. Measurement of Melting Temperature (Tm) of DNA The melting temperatre (Tm) for a piece of DNA is the temperature at which 50% is no longer hybridized. The midpoint of the transition from the double stranded to the single stranded form of the DNA is called the melting temperature (Tm) for the DNA. In most organisms the Tm of the chromosomal DNA ranges from 85-100 degrees C. It is possible to determine the composition of the DNA experimentally from its Tm because the Tm of DNA is directly proportional to the GC content of the DNA as graphically illustrated below. Measuring the composition of DNA The melting temperature is directly proportional to the composition of the DNA. This is also a measure of the hydrogen bonding content of the DNA. While the melting temperature does not tell us anything about the proteins that are coded by the DNA, it does tell us something about the tolerance of the organism in which the DNA is found. For example, thermophilic bacteria (those that survive at extremely high temperatures) have DNA with very high Tm values so that their DNA does not melt at their normal environmental temperature. As we will see later, this also has implications for how the same proteins can be made in two different organisms using DNA with vastly different compositions. Temperature's Effect on DNA Structure The nitrogenous bases in nucleic acids absorb UV light at 260nm. Using this characteristic it is possible to measure the concentration of DNA in a solution using spectrophotometry (measuring the amount of light of a specific wavelength of light absorbed by a solution). The absorbance values depend, in part, on the DNA structure because single stranded DNA will absorb less light than double stranded DNA. You measure a known amount of double stranded DNA at body temperature (37°C) and get an absorbance reading indicated at point A on the graph below. You take that same concentration of DNA and raise the temperature to 65°C, when you measure the absorbance you get the reading indicated at point B. You take that same concentration of DNA and increase the temperature once more to 95°C, when you measure the absorbance you get the reading indicated at point C. In summary, for the hybridization of two strands of DNA and RNA: The chains are antiparallel. The two chains are held together by hydrogen bonding between bases. The stability of the DNA is directly proportional to the number of hydrogen bonds between chains. Hydrogen bonding between strands of DNA and RNA follow the pattern A hydrogen bonded through two bonds to T in DNA A hydrogen bonded through two bonds to U in RNA G hydrogen bonded through three bonds to C in both DNA and RNA On the previous page you determined that the most stable complimentary base pairing takes place between A and T with two hydrogen bonds and between G and C with three hydrogen bonds in DNA. Combining that finding with the backbone information that described DNA as containing A, T, G, and C as the possible bases and A, U, G, and C as the possible bases in RNA, the complimentary base pairing in RNA would include A with U (examine the difference in structure between T and U) with two hydrogen bonds and G with C as described in DNA. In each case these comlimentary base pairings included a purine hydrogen bonded to a pyrimidine. This means that the distance between the attachment sites for the sugar in all the base pairs are identical giving uniform dimensions to the distance between the two backbones along the length of two strands that are hydrogen bonded together. Because T and U are identical in the hydrogen bonding that each makes with A, this means that a backbone (strand) of DNA can hydrogen bond with another strand of DNA but also with a strand of RNA. The ability of the strands of DNA and RNA to hydrogen bond with each other either as homodimers (DNA-DNA, RNA-RNA) or as heterodimers (DNA-RNA) is referred to as hybridization. As a general rule, hybridization will take place to maximize the number of hydrogen bonds that can be formed between two polynucleotide strands. However, another structural limitation is placed on the formation of the hydrogen bonds between two lengths of polynucleotide strands: the strands must be anti-parallel to each other. This means that the since the backbne has a 5' end and a 3' end, two strands hydridized to each other must have one strand oriented 5' to 3' and the complimentary strand 3' to 5' as illustrated below. 5'- G- C- A- U- A- G- -3' 3'- C- G- U- A- U- C- -5' This short duplex structure is anti-parallel and has 15 hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. As written this is a duplex of two strands of RNA. The figure below shows the same structure as a duplex of DNA. 5'- dG- dC- dA- dT- dA- dG- -3' 3'- dC- dG- dT- dA- dT- dC- -5' Can you generate a hybrid structure using the top 5' to 3' DNA strand from the figure above and create the appropriate RNA strand hybridized to it? The stability of double stranded DNA is due to two factors, hydrogen bonds and base stacking. Hydrogen bonds provide an attractive force between the strands while base stacking (van der Waals) stabilizes the helical structure. The Jmol below shows the stacking of the bases and illustrates the hydrogen bonding pattern for a GC basepair. The stability of the DNA is to some extent determined by the number of hydrogen bonds holding the two strands together. Thus DNA with more GC base pairs is likely to be more stable than one with more AT base pairs. DNA Structure (B-helix)   Introduction to Nucleic Acids In 1953, a group of scientists contributed to one of the most significant scientific discoveries in history when they determined the structure of DNA, a nucleic acid that is the hereditary material in a cell. Nucleic acids are macromolecules that carry out two main functions in the cell: storage of genetic information and synthesis of proteins. Two types of nucleic acids specialize in these functions: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA). DNA is the genetic material that stores information for making proteins in all living organisms. Some viruses store their genetic information in RNA instead of DNA. This may seem like an exception to the universal use of DNA as genetic material; however, recall that viruses are not cellular, and are not considered living organisms. The functions of nucleic acids are summarized in the table below. Nucleic Acids and Their Functions By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Type of Nucleic Acid Function DNA (1) Stores and transmits inherited genetic information; and, (2) contains the coded directions for making proteins RNA Translates the information coded in DNA for the production of proteins inside cells A nucleic acid consists of a chain of nucleotides. There are different kinds of nucleotides that can be linked to build the different nucleic acids. DNA is probably the most familiar nucleic acid, but in this module, you will also learn about RNA. The nucleotides that are used to build RNA molecules are different from the nucleotides that are used to build DNA. You'll also take a look at a very special nucleotide — ATP, which acts as the energy currency of the cell.   Basic Chromosome Structure Chromosomes are thread-like structures located inside cells. In eukaryotic cells, the chromosomes are contained inside an organelle called a nucleus. In prokaryotic cells, they are located in a particular area of the cytoplasm. Chromosomes are made up of two major parts: DNA and proteins. Both DNA and proteins are large molecules. Envision the general makeup of a chromosome, as shown in the following diagram. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. DNA is the molecule that stores and transmits inherited genetic information. This information includes the directions that tell a cell how to make proteins. Information is stored in DNA in segments called genes. In the diagram above, the ruler represents the entire DNA molecule. The genes are represented as short segments of the ruler. You will learn more about the structure and function of genes in the Molecular Genetics unit. The blobs of clay in the diagram above represent histone protein molecules. These proteins associate with DNA in a very precise way. First, they couple with DNA at regularly spaced intervals. Notice in the diagram above that the blobs of clay (histones) are located at equally spaced intervals along the ruler. Second, they help to wind the DNA molecule into an organized and compact structure. The following diagram shows how histones wind DNA into a compact structure called a chromosome. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. The winding function of histones plays a very important role in cells. It allows the DNA to be condensed into organized bundles (chromosomes) that can easily be moved around the cell. Because the DNA is wound around the histones in such an organized way, the DNA can be easily wound up and unwound at various points during the cell cycle. For example, chromosomes must unwind slightly when a new copy of DNA is made. In order for a new copy of the DNA to be made, the replication enzymes must be able to access the DNA. It is nearly impossible for these enzymes to get to the DNA if the DNA is tightly bound by histone proteins. Therefore, the chromosomes are unwound prior to DNA replication. Following DNA replication (synthesis), the chromosomes become very tightly wound as the cell gets ready to divide during mitosis or meiosis. Without an organized compaction system, the long pieces of DNA in chromosomes could easily become "knotted" and tangled. Think of a long piece of string. Knots can easily form in the string if it is not carefully wound up into a ball. Keeping the DNA organized is critical, especially when you consider that the DNA in one human cell is three feet long when it is stretched out straight. This is quite amazing when you realize that this must fit into a cell so small that it cannot be seen with the naked eye. This feat is achieved by two different winding processes. One of these is the winding of DNA around histone molecules. As a result of this winding, the DNA molecule becomes shorter than before it was wound around the histone molecules. Winding DNA into Condensed Chromosomes The videos below are two illustrations of the winding of DNA around histones. The left video shows the DNA strand coiling and condensing to form chromosomes; on the right, a model depicts the structure of DNA. DNA Strand By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. DNA Model Now look at an image of the relationship between DNA and histones in chromosomes that is more realistic than what is shown in our ruler-and-clay diagram above. When the DNA becomes tightly wound around the histone proteins, imagine that the chromosome looks as illustrated below. The videos below are two illustrations of the winding of DNA around histones. The left video shows the DNA strand coiling and condensing to form chromosomes; on the right, a model depicts the structure of DNA. DNA Strand By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. DNA Model   Definitions of Terms The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Amino Acids molecules containing an amine group, a carboxylic acid group, and a specific side-chain Chromosome Tightly coiled form of the DNA-protein complex. DNA Polymerase Enzyme involved in DNA replication, recognizes the primer and adds nucleotides to the 3’ end of the primer. DNA Replication Synthesis of a new DNA double helix. Each strand in the existing double helix is used as a template strand to build a new DNA strand. Genome All the genetic information in an organism. Nucleotides molecules that make up the individual structural units of the nucleic acids RNA and DNA. Ribosome Cytoplasmic structures which function as assembly sites for proteins. Annealing Binding of one nucleic acid chain to another. Codon A sequence of three nucleotides in an mRNA molecule that specifies which amino acid should be added to a growing polypeptide chain. Gene Expression Transcription of information encoded in a gene into RNA and eventually a polypeptide chain. Mutation Changes to the DNA nucleotide sequence. RNA Polymerase Enzyme involved in transcription, build an RNA strand using DNA as a template. Transcription Reading the DNA and encoding an mRNA molecule with information to be taken to protein-synthesizing regions of the cell. Transformation Change in genotype and phenotype resulting from assimilation of outside DNA. Translation Synthesis of a polypeptide from the information in an RNA sequence. Expression Plasmid A circular double stranded DNA molecule that contains all of the necessary DNA sequences to allow for maintenance of the plasmid as well as the production of mRNA from genes inserted into the plasmid. Codon Optimization Due to degeneracy in the genetic code, more than one codon can code for the same amino acid. Different organisms prefer one codon over another. The process of codon optimization is the use of prefered codons when designing a gene to be expressed in a certain organism.   Unit Summary: Molecular Genetics In this unit, you learned about genetic information from the molecular point of view. In the DNA Function module , you learned that genetic information is stored in the sequence of bases in the DNA molecules. The theme “structure determines function” clearly applies to DNA: the double-stranded structure of DNA provides a way for copying the information each time a cell has to divide because each of the two strands serves as a template for the new double-stranded DNA molecule (DNA replication). In the Gene Expression module, you learned how information stored in DNA is used by the cell to make proteins. Central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of genetic information from DNA to RNA to protein. The two key processes involved in gene expression, transcription and translation, involve distinct enzymes and in eukaryotic cells are physically separated by the nuclear membranes. In this module you also considered how changes in DNA (mutations, genotype) can affect amino acid sequence of the proteins and their function (phenotype). The connection between genotype and phenotype of the organism was further discussed in the Gene Regulation module. This module began with discussion of gene structure, including the parts of the gene required for regulation of gene expression: coding DNA sequence, untranslated regions, promoter, operator, and terminator. Comparison of eukaryotic and prokaryotic genes and genomes revealed important differences. Many prokaryotic genes with related functions reside next to each other on DNA (operons) and are expressed together in a single RNA. Eukaryotic genes are often fragmented: exons are interrupted by introns, which are removed from the final mRNA. The modular organization of eukaryotic genes gives more flexibility in gene expression, because one DNA sequence can give rise to different versions of RNA and protein in different cells. The module also addressed the interactions between genes and environment. In addition to DNA damage by mutagens, environment can affect gene expression directly via regulatory proteins, or indirectly by changing packaging of DNA. The knowledge of molecular genetics can be applied to medicine. One application discussed in the Biotechnology module involves production of human proteins in bacterial, yeast or other cells grown in laboratory. Since genetic code is nearly universal, DNA from humans can be “read” by other cells and used to make proteins. However, differences in gene and genome structure between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells require scientists to engineer new DNA molecules that combine both, coding information from a human gene and regulatory information from yeast or bacterial genomes. A large number of techniques have been developed for manipulating DNA: PCR is used to make copies of DNA fragments, specialized enzymes are used to cut and put together DNA fragments, and special procedures drive foreign DNA into the cells and induce expression of the foreign gene. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.   Unit Summary: Molecular Genetics In this unit, you learned about genetic information from the molecular point of view. In the DNA Function module , you learned that genetic information is stored in the sequence of bases in the DNA molecules. The theme “structure determines function” clearly applies to DNA: the double-stranded structure of DNA provides a way for copying the information each time a cell has to divide because each of the two strands serves as a template for the new double-stranded DNA molecule (DNA replication). In the Gene Expression module, you learned how information stored in DNA is used by the cell to make proteins. Central dogma of molecular biology describes the flow of genetic information from DNA to RNA to protein. The two key processes involved in gene expression, transcription and translation, involve distinct enzymes and in eukaryotic cells are physically separated by the nuclear membranes. In this module you also considered how changes in DNA (mutations, genotype) can affect amino acid sequence of the proteins and their function (phenotype). The connection between genotype and phenotype of the organism was further discussed in the Gene Regulation module. This module began with discussion of gene structure, including the parts of the gene required for regulation of gene expression: coding DNA sequence, untranslated regions, promoter, operator, and terminator. Comparison of eukaryotic and prokaryotic genes and genomes revealed important differences. Many prokaryotic genes with related functions reside next to each other on DNA (operons) and are expressed together in a single RNA. Eukaryotic genes are often fragmented: exons are interrupted by introns, which are removed from the final mRNA. The modular organization of eukaryotic genes gives more flexibility in gene expression, because one DNA sequence can give rise to different versions of RNA and protein in different cells. The module also addressed the interactions between genes and environment. In addition to DNA damage by mutagens, environment can affect gene expression directly via regulatory proteins, or indirectly by changing packaging of DNA. The knowledge of molecular genetics can be applied to medicine. One application discussed in the Biotechnology module involves production of human proteins in bacterial, yeast or other cells grown in laboratory. Since genetic code is nearly universal, DNA from humans can be “read” by other cells and used to make proteins. However, differences in gene and genome structure between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells require scientists to engineer new DNA molecules that combine both, coding information from a human gene and regulatory information from yeast or bacterial genomes. A large number of techniques have been developed for manipulating DNA: PCR is used to make copies of DNA fragments, specialized enzymes are used to cut and put together DNA fragments, and special procedures drive foreign DNA into the cells and induce expression of the foreign gene. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.   Challenges Solving Challenges within the Rules The Origin of Replication – where to start The Challenge: To initiate the DNA replication of a chromosome the appropriate substrate conditions must be met as described previously. How long the process of replication takes is also important to the cell. How genomes of variable sizes can be totally replicated within the appropriate life cycle time of the cell is a significant challenge. Bacterial chromosomes have a single point of origin for replication The origin of replication has been described as a specific DNA sequence to which initiator protein (DnaA) binds and initiates the process of creating the open complex for synthesis. For a typical prokaryotic (bacterial) chromosome there is one origin of replication and synthesis proceeds at a rate of approximately 500 bp(base pairs)/sec. A bp or base pair is the unit of length of DNA measured in single nucleotides or hydrogen bonded base pairs along the polymer chain. Thus if a typical bacterial chromosome is 2x10e6 (two million) bp in length then the replication time of the chromosome would be about 30 minutes which is consistent with the life cycle of the typical bacterial being 30 to 40 minutes. Eukaryotic chromosomes have multiple points of origin for replication The replication rate for the eukaryotic replication fork has been measured to be approximately 50 bp/sec. This means that for a eukaryotic chromosome of 10e8 bp to completely replicate starting at one origin of replication it would take approximately 23 days. While we know that the life-cycles of eukaryotic cells are extremely variable, the S-phase, the period of time during the eukaryotic life-cycle when DNA is replicated, typically last 8 hours. To explain the enormous difference in time scale, it has been found that the eukaryotic chromosome has multiple origins of replication. The eukaryotic replication units have upwards of 80 origins which means the replication time is reduced to approximately 7 hrs. What if DNA polymerase makes a mistake? The Challenge: DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA at rates up to 500 bp/sec. There are basically three types of mistakes that the enzyme can make during the synthesis: substitution of an incorrect base, insertion of an extra base or failure to insert a base resulting in a deletion. The consequences of these errors will be apparent as we move toward the discussion of DNA transcription and RNA Translation. In the context of Replication it is important to touch on at least a couple of the means by which the system corrects errors or reduces the frequency of errors. Editing the Synthesis DNA polymerases are members of a very interesting family of enzymes because of the multi functional nature of their activity. As has been discussed previously, they are capable of synthesizing DNA given the appropriate substrate. They have their own activity to remove RNA and/or DNA in front of the synthesis as described on the lagging strand of the replication fork. Equally important to the organism is the ability to edit errors during synthesis by either preventing the incorporation of the incorrect base and/or by removing an incorrectly incorporated base before the next base is added. These editing functions can reduce the error frequency by 2 orders of magnitude. However, even this editing function does not get the error rate to an acceptable number for survival of an organism. In addition to editing during synthesis, there is also monitoring of the DNA for missed errors resulting from replication and for post-replication damage to the DNA. In each of these cases the process involves cutting one of the strands of the DNA specifically creating a condition by which a DNA polymerase can replace the error or damaged DNA followed by ligation of the nicked DNA using DNA ligase. It is to be noted that while different proteins may be used, the basic process is the same and follows the direction/rules dictated by the mechanism of the specific enzymes. The combination of these other editing and repair functions reduces the error rate by another 2 orders of magnitude thus reducing the error frequency to an acceptable level. Following the rules Understanding the process/mechanism of DNA replication has allowed researchers to understand how certain DNA repair functions are conducted and to develop new tools that have revolutionized our ability to gain information from DNA. Overcoming Chromosome Shortening During replication of circular chromosomes, such as in bacteria, the leading strand of synthesis from one replication fork eventually meets the lagging strand of synthesis for the other replication fork and there is complete synthesis of the entire chromosome. For linear chromosomes this same process happens between two origins of replication. However at the end of the linear chromosomes, the telomeres, the lagging strand does not completely replicate to match the length of DNA generated on the leading strand. Thus for repeated replication of the chromosomes during multiple cell divisions, this means that the chromosomes are shortened with each cycle of replication. Since DNA synthesis is always unidirectional from 5’ to 3’, it is necessary to lengthen the 3’ end of the chromosome such that primer directed synthesis can take place to lengthen the shorter 5’ end of the chromosome. While the staggered end of the chromosome is not avoided, the net length of the chromosome is recovered or even lengthened. The diagrams below demonstrate how lengthening of the chromosome can be accomplished using the enzyme telomerase. The telomerase enzyme is a polymerase like enzyme that carries its own template with the template having overlap complementarity with the 3’ end of the chromosome. The criteria for polymerization are met, a template and a primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, and the telomerase lengthens the 3’ strand of the chromosome. This process of lengthening is repeated until a the normal replication process lays down a RNA primer using the primase enzyme, DNA polymerase synthesizes new DNA from the 3’ end of the RNA primer and DNA ligase joins the newly synthesized DNA to the 5’ end of the chromosome. Process of Telomerase lengthening the 3’ strand of the chromosome. Being creative with the rules Two tools that have become integral parts of the study of modern biology were developed through the simple understanding of how the DNA replication process works. At the beginning of this unit three structural requirements for the substrate of DNA polymerase were described. Satisfying those requirements is the basis for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), used to amplify segments of DNA, and the Sanger DNA sequencing method used in sequencing the human genome as well as others. Polymerase Chain Reaction Characterization of large numbers of microorganisms, rapid screening for genetic diseases and identification of individuals or species from very small amounts of tissues or cells requires a means to amplify a specific sequence of DNA for further manipulation. Previously this would have required growing large quantities of cells containing the DNA or obtaining large quantities of the tissue. DNA replication is the process of doubling the original amount of DNA. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is simply a method by which DNA replication is repeated through many cycles. In the same way that doubling a bacterial cell through 20 cycles will generate a million copies of the bacteria, replication of DNA through 20 cycles will amplify the amount of DNA by a million fold. View this PCR tutorial for a quick overview of the process. (©Sumanas, Inc.) View PCR tutorial PCR is limited by the length of DNA that can be repeatedly replicated by DNA polymerase. Different polymerases and different conditions are described to amplify DNA of varying lengths. Routinely, segments of DNA from 500 to 1000 bp in length are easily replicated. The segment of DNA to be replicated is defined by the position of the primers that define the start of the replication on each strand. These are referred to as the forward primer and the reverse primer. The double stranded DNA to be amplified is melted by raising the temperature high enough to fully melt the DNA creating single stranded DNA. The sample is cooled in the presence of the primers and each primer binds to its complementary strand. The appropriate substrate conditions for DNA polymerase binding and synthesis are now in place. DNA polymerase is added with the dNTPs and synthesis of DNA proceeds for as long as the reaction is allowed to progress before either the time of the reaction ends or the DNA polymerase falls off the substrate. The temperature is raised again to melt the DNA and create a single stranded template. Because DNA polymerase will generally denature and irreversibly inactivate at these elevated temperatures it is necessary to add fresh DNA polymerase at each cycle when the temperature is lowered during primer attachment. To avoid repetitive addition of a very expensive enzyme after each cycle and to make automation of the process feasible, there was an advantage to finding a DNA polymerase that survives high temperatures and in fact is active at high temperatures. Such an enzyme was found from thermophilic bacteria (bacteria that thrive at extremely high temperatures). One such enzyme, taq DNA polymerase from thermos aquaticus, is optimally active around 75 degrees and can withstand temperatures as high as 100 degrees without denaturing. Thus the PCR reaction can be performed in a closed tube with DNA to be amplified, taq DNA polymerase, excess dNTPs, and excess amounts of the forward and reverse primers. The reaction tube is put in an instrument called a thermocycler that can be programmed to automatically raise and lower the reaction temperature. Now the temperature is raised to form single stranded DNA, lowered to bind the primers and DNA polymerase with the correct substrate again replicates the DNA. After 20 cycles of this process with each cycle doubling the number of duplex DNA strands present, there will be 1, 048,576 copies of the DNA present. DNA Sequencing Current methods of DNA sequencing rely on understanding the substrate requirements of DNA polymerase and the concept of competition. To sequence DNA as with PCR it is necessary to create single stranded DNA that will act as the template. It is generally required that to ensure valid DNA sequence, a double stranded segment of DNA should be sequenced in both directions using primers at each of sequence to be defined. These primers are the equivalent of the forward and reverse primers of PCR. However, where PCR replicates both strands simultaneously, DNA sequencing is performed on each strand individually. Starting with the single stranded template and the bound primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, the conditions are set for DNA polymerase to replicate the DNA. If all four dNTPs were added at this point simple replication of the strand of DNA would occur and no information would be gained. However, if one of the dNTPs was substituted by a NTP that had no hydroxyl on either the 2’ or the 3’ position, a dideoxyNTP (ddNTP), it would be incorporated into the growing DNA strand through the 5’ position in a complementary position opposite its complementary base on the template strand but synthesis from that point forward would be terminated due to the absence of a hydroxyl on the 3’ position. The requirement for synthesis by DNA polymerase has been lost. The dideoxyNTP is referred to as a suicide substrate. If complete replacement of dATP with ddATP were made, then the first time a T were encountered in the template strand, DNA polymerase would incorporate ddATP and all synthesis would halt. If however, a mixture of dATP and ddATP were present, then when the first T were encountered in the template, the dATP and ddATP would compete for the active site of DNA polymerase. If dATP is incorporated, synthesis continues to the next nucleotide and if ddTAP is incorporated synthesis halts for that one strand of DNA. Thus in a population of template strands, a fragment of DNA starting at the primer and ending at each T would be generated with the length of the fragment in nucleotide units defines the location of the T in the template strand. If this experiment is performed for each individual nucleotide, the complete sequence of the template can be accomplished. The Role of Telomeres Mismatch Repair The Origin of Replication – where to start The Challenge: To initiate the DNA replication of a chromosome the appropriate substrate conditions must be met as described previously. How long the process of replication takes is also important to the cell. How genomes of variable sizes can be totally replicated within the appropriate life cycle time of the cell is a significant challenge. Bacterial chromosomes have a single point of origin for replication The origin of replication has been described as a specific DNA sequence to which initiator protein (DnaA) binds and initiates the process of creating the open complex for synthesis. For a typical prokaryotic (bacterial) chromosome there is one origin of replication and synthesis proceeds at a rate of approximately 500 bp(base pairs)/sec. A bp or base pair is the unit of length of DNA measured in single nucleotides or hydrogen bonded base pairs along the polymer chain. Thus if a typical bacterial chromosome is 2x10e6 (two million) bp in length then the replication time of the chromosome would be about 30 minutes which is consistent with the life cycle of the typical bacterial being 30 to 40 minutes. Eukaryotic chromosomes have multiple points of origin for replication The replication rate for the eukaryotic replication fork has been measured to be approximately 50 bp/sec. This means that for a eukaryotic chromosome of 10e8 bp to completely replicate starting at one origin of replication it would take approximately 23 days. While we know that the life-cycles of eukaryotic cells are extremely variable, the S-phase, the period of time during the eukaryotic life-cycle when DNA is replicated, typically last 8 hours. To explain the enormous difference in time scale, it has been found that the eukaryotic chromosome has multiple origins of replication. The eukaryotic replication units have upwards of 80 origins which means the replication time is reduced to approximately 7 hrs. What if DNA polymerase makes a mistake? The Challenge: DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA at rates up to 500 bp/sec. There are basically three types of mistakes that the enzyme can make during the synthesis: substitution of an incorrect base, insertion of an extra base or failure to insert a base resulting in a deletion. The consequences of these errors will be apparent as we move toward the discussion of DNA transcription and RNA Translation. In the context of Replication it is important to touch on at least a couple of the means by which the system corrects errors or reduces the frequency of errors. Editing the Synthesis DNA polymerases are members of a very interesting family of enzymes because of the multi functional nature of their activity. As has been discussed previously, they are capable of synthesizing DNA given the appropriate substrate. They have their own activity to remove RNA and/or DNA in front of the synthesis as described on the lagging strand of the replication fork. Equally important to the organism is the ability to edit errors during synthesis by either preventing the incorporation of the incorrect base and/or by removing an incorrectly incorporated base before the next base is added. These editing functions can reduce the error frequency by 2 orders of magnitude. However, even this editing function does not get the error rate to an acceptable number for survival of an organism. In addition to editing during synthesis, there is also monitoring of the DNA for missed errors resulting from replication and for post-replication damage to the DNA. In each of these cases the process involves cutting one of the strands of the DNA specifically creating a condition by which a DNA polymerase can replace the error or damaged DNA followed by ligation of the nicked DNA using DNA ligase. It is to be noted that while different proteins may be used, the basic process is the same and follows the direction/rules dictated by the mechanism of the specific enzymes. The combination of these other editing and repair functions reduces the error rate by another 2 orders of magnitude thus reducing the error frequency to an acceptable level. Following the rules Understanding the process/mechanism of DNA replication has allowed researchers to understand how certain DNA repair functions are conducted and to develop new tools that have revolutionized our ability to gain information from DNA. Overcoming Chromosome Shortening During replication of circular chromosomes, such as in bacteria, the leading strand of synthesis from one replication fork eventually meets the lagging strand of synthesis for the other replication fork and there is complete synthesis of the entire chromosome. For linear chromosomes this same process happens between two origins of replication. However at the end of the linear chromosomes, the telomeres, the lagging strand does not completely replicate to match the length of DNA generated on the leading strand. Thus for repeated replication of the chromosomes during multiple cell divisions, this means that the chromosomes are shortened with each cycle of replication. Since DNA synthesis is always unidirectional from 5’ to 3’, it is necessary to lengthen the 3’ end of the chromosome such that primer directed synthesis can take place to lengthen the shorter 5’ end of the chromosome. While the staggered end of the chromosome is not avoided, the net length of the chromosome is recovered or even lengthened. The diagrams below demonstrate how lengthening of the chromosome can be accomplished using the enzyme telomerase. The telomerase enzyme is a polymerase like enzyme that carries its own template with the template having overlap complementarity with the 3’ end of the chromosome. The criteria for polymerization are met, a template and a primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, and the telomerase lengthens the 3’ strand of the chromosome. This process of lengthening is repeated until a the normal replication process lays down a RNA primer using the primase enzyme, DNA polymerase synthesizes new DNA from the 3’ end of the RNA primer and DNA ligase joins the newly synthesized DNA to the 5’ end of the chromosome. Process of Telomerase lengthening the 3’ strand of the chromosome. Being creative with the rules Two tools that have become integral parts of the study of modern biology were developed through the simple understanding of how the DNA replication process works. At the beginning of this unit three structural requirements for the substrate of DNA polymerase were described. Satisfying those requirements is the basis for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), used to amplify segments of DNA, and the Sanger DNA sequencing method used in sequencing the human genome as well as others. Polymerase Chain Reaction Characterization of large numbers of microorganisms, rapid screening for genetic diseases and identification of individuals or species from very small amounts of tissues or cells requires a means to amplify a specific sequence of DNA for further manipulation. Previously this would have required growing large quantities of cells containing the DNA or obtaining large quantities of the tissue. DNA replication is the process of doubling the original amount of DNA. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is simply a method by which DNA replication is repeated through many cycles. In the same way that doubling a bacterial cell through 20 cycles will generate a million copies of the bacteria, replication of DNA through 20 cycles will amplify the amount of DNA by a million fold. View this PCR tutorial for a quick overview of the process. (©Sumanas, Inc.) View PCR tutorial PCR is limited by the length of DNA that can be repeatedly replicated by DNA polymerase. Different polymerases and different conditions are described to amplify DNA of varying lengths. Routinely, segments of DNA from 500 to 1000 bp in length are easily replicated. The segment of DNA to be replicated is defined by the position of the primers that define the start of the replication on each strand. These are referred to as the forward primer and the reverse primer. The double stranded DNA to be amplified is melted by raising the temperature high enough to fully melt the DNA creating single stranded DNA. The sample is cooled in the presence of the primers and each primer binds to its complementary strand. The appropriate substrate conditions for DNA polymerase binding and synthesis are now in place. DNA polymerase is added with the dNTPs and synthesis of DNA proceeds for as long as the reaction is allowed to progress before either the time of the reaction ends or the DNA polymerase falls off the substrate. The temperature is raised again to melt the DNA and create a single stranded template. Because DNA polymerase will generally denature and irreversibly inactivate at these elevated temperatures it is necessary to add fresh DNA polymerase at each cycle when the temperature is lowered during primer attachment. To avoid repetitive addition of a very expensive enzyme after each cycle and to make automation of the process feasible, there was an advantage to finding a DNA polymerase that survives high temperatures and in fact is active at high temperatures. Such an enzyme was found from thermophilic bacteria (bacteria that thrive at extremely high temperatures). One such enzyme, taq DNA polymerase from thermos aquaticus, is optimally active around 75 degrees and can withstand temperatures as high as 100 degrees without denaturing. Thus the PCR reaction can be performed in a closed tube with DNA to be amplified, taq DNA polymerase, excess dNTPs, and excess amounts of the forward and reverse primers. The reaction tube is put in an instrument called a thermocycler that can be programmed to automatically raise and lower the reaction temperature. Now the temperature is raised to form single stranded DNA, lowered to bind the primers and DNA polymerase with the correct substrate again replicates the DNA. After 20 cycles of this process with each cycle doubling the number of duplex DNA strands present, there will be 1, 048,576 copies of the DNA present. DNA Sequencing Current methods of DNA sequencing rely on understanding the substrate requirements of DNA polymerase and the concept of competition. To sequence DNA as with PCR it is necessary to create single stranded DNA that will act as the template. It is generally required that to ensure valid DNA sequence, a double stranded segment of DNA should be sequenced in both directions using primers at each of sequence to be defined. These primers are the equivalent of the forward and reverse primers of PCR. However, where PCR replicates both strands simultaneously, DNA sequencing is performed on each strand individually. Starting with the single stranded template and the bound primer with a free 3’ hydroxyl, the conditions are set for DNA polymerase to replicate the DNA. If all four dNTPs were added at this point simple replication of the strand of DNA would occur and no information would be gained. However, if one of the dNTPs was substituted by a NTP that had no hydroxyl on either the 2’ or the 3’ position, a dideoxyNTP (ddNTP), it would be incorporated into the growing DNA strand through the 5’ position in a complementary position opposite its complementary base on the template strand but synthesis from that point forward would be terminated due to the absence of a hydroxyl on the 3’ position. The requirement for synthesis by DNA polymerase has been lost. The dideoxyNTP is referred to as a suicide substrate. If complete replacement of dATP with ddATP were made, then the first time a T were encountered in the template strand, DNA polymerase would incorporate ddATP and all synthesis would halt. If however, a mixture of dATP and ddATP were present, then when the first T were encountered in the template, the dATP and ddATP would compete for the active site of DNA polymerase. If dATP is incorporated, synthesis continues to the next nucleotide and if ddTAP is incorporated synthesis halts for that one strand of DNA. Thus in a population of template strands, a fragment of DNA starting at the primer and ending at each T would be generated with the length of the fragment in nucleotide units defines the location of the T in the template strand. If this experiment is performed for each individual nucleotide, the complete sequence of the template can be accomplished. The Role of Telomeres Mismatch Repair   DNA Synthesis Initiation of synthesis from double stranded DNA Having explored the requirements for DNA polymerase, it is clear that the prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes fail the first requirement of a single stranded sequence of DNA. Therefore to initiate DNA replication it is necessary to create the conditions that will allow DNA polymerase to carry out DNA synthesis. First the DNA must be opened by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs and unwinding the DNA. This is initiated by a protein called the initiator protein or DnaA that recognizes a specific DNA sequence called the origin of replication, binds to the sequence and opens up the sequence to create a replication bubble (open complex). An enzyme called a helicase binds to the open complex and extends the melted region of the double stranded DNA to further open the replication bubble. There now exists a single stranded segment of DNA exposed on both chains of the DNA double helix. A small protein called SSB (Single Stranded Binding protein) coats the open complex. The Open Complex With formation of an open complex, one of the requirements for DNA polymerase is satisfied: single stranded DNA is generated. At either end of the open complex where the single stranded and double stranded DNA meet, a structure referred to as the replication fork exists. From this point we will focus on the process of replication at one of the replication forks. Remember that the replication will be occurring simultaneously from both forks in opposite directions. To allow the binding of DNA polymerase, a second requirement must be met for the structure of the substrate. An enzyme called Primase synthesizes a short (approximately 10 nucleotides), complementary RNA primer on each strand of the DNA in a 5’ to 3’ unidirectional fashion. This complex of DNA and protein at the replication fork is referred to as the replisome. Replisome at one fork The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase have been satisfied and synthesis begins. Helicase continues to melt the DNA in front of DNA polymerase. As single stranded DNA is generated between the ‘back’ of the RNA primer on one strand and the opening replication fork, a new segment of RNA primer is laid down near the opening fork and DNA polymerase synthesizes a new complementary strand of DNA from the primer toward 5’ end of the existing primer and stops. This segment of DNA that is not connected to the next segment is referred to as an Okazaki Fragment. Synthesis on this lagging strand is said to be discontinuous since it is generated in uniform lengths of DNA starting from one primer and stopping before the next RNA primer. Synthesis on the opposite strand is a continuous uninterrupted process starting from the initial primer and continuing as long as the DNA continues to open up at the replication fork. This strand on which continuous synthesis takes place is referred to as the Leading Strand. Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand The following animation depicts the complete process of DNA replication. In the animation you should be able to identify each of the stages of synthesis on each of the strands. At the end of the synthesis you will see that the leading strand has a continuous double helix generated while the lagging strand has a discontinuous set of Okazaki fragments that must be connected before the synthesis is complete. To accomplish this mending of the DNA, a separate DNA polymerase binds to the ‘nick’ left in the DNA between the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA and the 5’ end of the RNA primer. The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase are met even though there is no apparent single stranded DNA present. The DNA polymerase removes the RNA primer and a few nucleotides of DNA in front of it while simultaneously synthesizing DNA on the 3’ end of the existing DNA. This process is referred to as nick translation. When only DNA is present, the DNA polymerase releases from the DNA leaving a nick in the DNA between two DNA segments. DNA polymerase does not have a function to join the two ends of the DNA together and thus a separate enzyme, DNA Ligase, recognizes the nick in the DNA and links the 3’ end of the one segment to the 5’ end of the next segment. This process of DNA replication continues until the entire sequence of DNA is synthesized. The process is fundamentally the same in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. DNA Synthesis: Making New DNA Once the appropriate structural requirements for the synthesis of DNA are met, DNA synthesis occurs continuously in a unidirection process from 5’ to 3’ along the template. The following animation demonstrates the building of a complementary strand using the components required by DNA polymerase. This process can take place wherever the initial conditions for operation of DNA polymerase exist. Building the Complementary Strand DNA Polymerase binds to DNA at the 3' end of the primer and builds a complementary sequence. Key Concepts DNA Polymerase Functions DNA Synthesis Requirements DNA Synthesis on Leading and Lagging Strands Having explored the requirements for DNA polymerase, it is clear that the prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes fail the first requirement of a single stranded sequence of DNA. Therefore to initiate DNA replication it is necessary to create the conditions that will allow DNA polymerase to carry out DNA synthesis. First the DNA must be opened by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs and unwinding the DNA. This is initiated by a protein called the initiator protein or DnaA that recognizes a specific DNA sequence called the origin of replication, binds to the sequence and opens up the sequence to create a replication bubble (open complex). An enzyme called a helicase binds to the open complex and extends the melted region of the double stranded DNA to further open the replication bubble. There now exists a single stranded segment of DNA exposed on both chains of the DNA double helix. A small protein called SSB (Single Stranded Binding protein) coats the open complex. The Open Complex With formation of an open complex, one of the requirements for DNA polymerase is satisfied: single stranded DNA is generated. At either end of the open complex where the single stranded and double stranded DNA meet, a structure referred to as the replication fork exists. From this point we will focus on the process of replication at one of the replication forks. Remember that the replication will be occurring simultaneously from both forks in opposite directions. To allow the binding of DNA polymerase, a second requirement must be met for the structure of the substrate. An enzyme called Primase synthesizes a short (approximately 10 nucleotides), complementary RNA primer on each strand of the DNA in a 5’ to 3’ unidirectional fashion. This complex of DNA and protein at the replication fork is referred to as the replisome. Replisome at one fork The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase have been satisfied and synthesis begins. Helicase continues to melt the DNA in front of DNA polymerase. As single stranded DNA is generated between the ‘back’ of the RNA primer on one strand and the opening replication fork, a new segment of RNA primer is laid down near the opening fork and DNA polymerase synthesizes a new complementary strand of DNA from the primer toward 5’ end of the existing primer and stops. This segment of DNA that is not connected to the next segment is referred to as an Okazaki Fragment. Synthesis on this lagging strand is said to be discontinuous since it is generated in uniform lengths of DNA starting from one primer and stopping before the next RNA primer. Synthesis on the opposite strand is a continuous uninterrupted process starting from the initial primer and continuing as long as the DNA continues to open up at the replication fork. This strand on which continuous synthesis takes place is referred to as the Leading Strand. Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand The following animation depicts the complete process of DNA replication. In the animation you should be able to identify each of the stages of synthesis on each of the strands. At the end of the synthesis you will see that the leading strand has a continuous double helix generated while the lagging strand has a discontinuous set of Okazaki fragments that must be connected before the synthesis is complete. To accomplish this mending of the DNA, a separate DNA polymerase binds to the ‘nick’ left in the DNA between the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA and the 5’ end of the RNA primer. The substrate requirements for DNA polymerase are met even though there is no apparent single stranded DNA present. The DNA polymerase removes the RNA primer and a few nucleotides of DNA in front of it while simultaneously synthesizing DNA on the 3’ end of the existing DNA. This process is referred to as nick translation. When only DNA is present, the DNA polymerase releases from the DNA leaving a nick in the DNA between two DNA segments. DNA polymerase does not have a function to join the two ends of the DNA together and thus a separate enzyme, DNA Ligase, recognizes the nick in the DNA and links the 3’ end of the one segment to the 5’ end of the next segment. This process of DNA replication continues until the entire sequence of DNA is synthesized. The process is fundamentally the same in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Once the appropriate structural requirements for the synthesis of DNA are met, DNA synthesis occurs continuously in a unidirection process from 5’ to 3’ along the template. The following animation demonstrates the building of a complementary strand using the components required by DNA polymerase. This process can take place wherever the initial conditions for operation of DNA polymerase exist. Building the Complementary Strand DNA Polymerase binds to DNA at the 3' end of the primer and builds a complementary sequence.   Application Spotlight: Identify Suspects Much of our DNA contains a number of short DNA segments that are repeated over and over again at different locations in our genome. The number of these tandem repeats at each location in the genome can differ from individual to individual, with 5 to 20 percent of individuals having the same number of tandem repeats at the same location. Illustration of the variation in tandem repeats in the human population. Two chromosomes are shown, and the tandem repeats in each chromosome are shown as yellow (chromosome 1) or blue boxes (chromosome 2). The two individuals have the same number of tandem repeats on chromosome 1, but a different number of repeats on chromosome 2. Variations in the number of tandem repeats are detected by the polymerase chain reaction, using primers that bind to unique sequences on the edges of the repeat. Amplification of repetitive DNA by PCR. The region of DNA containing the repeats is shown on the top; the PCR product is on the bottom. If the two DNA samples show a different number of repeats, then the samples must have come from two different individuals. If two DNA samples show the same number of repeats at one location, then there is a chance that the two DNA samples came from the same individual. This is not a very reliable indication that the DNA samples came from the same individual, since a significant fraction of people can have the same number of tandem repeats at any one location in the chromosome. To increase the reliability of a positive match between the two samples, a total of 13 different locations of tandem repeats are amplified, and the number of repeats at each location are compared. If any of the 13 locations differ in the number of repeats, the two DNA samples came from different individuals. However, if all 13 agree, there is a greater than 99.99 percent probability that the two DNA samples came from the same individual. There is still a 0.01 percent chance that the DNA came from two different people who just happened to have the same number of tandem repeats at each of the 13 different locations. Use PCR to solve the following crime. A homicide has occurred, and you are trying to determine which of your suspects is most likely the culprit. You collect blood from the crime scene, the victim, and each suspect. You use PCR to amplify a region of tandem repeats in each DNA sample. If there are more tandem repeats present in a DNA molecule, then the PCR product will be larger. For instance, if Bob has seven repeats and Joe has only two, the PCR product from Bob’s DNA will be larger than the PCR product from Joe’s DNA. The PCR products are separated using a technique called gel electrophoresis. In this technique, DNA is placed in an electric field, and the DNA will move toward the positive electrode due to the negative charge on the DNA. The DNA is forced to move through a crosslinked gel material. Because smaller DNA molecules can move faster through the gel, this technique separates DNA molecules by size. The distance of the DNA from the top of the gel is directly related to the size of the DNA, and therefore the number of tandem repeat. An image of the gel is shown below. In 1918, following the Russian Revolution, Czar Nicholas II and his entire family were reportedly executed by the communists. It was rumored at the time that two of the Czar’s children, Anastasia and Alexei, escaped and survived. Later examination of the gravesite showed that two bodies were indeed missing, suggesting that the rumor was true. A woman living in Germany, Ann, claimed that she was Anastasia. DNA was obtained both from this woman and from a preserved blood sample belonging to the Czar (from a bloodstained shirt left over from an assassination attempt in Japan). PCR was used to amplify tandem repeats in two regions of the chromosome for both DNA samples, and the results are shown on the following gel.   Information Content of DNA The genetic information of an organism is stored in DNA molecules. How can one kind of molecule contain all the instructions for making complicated living beings like ourselves? What component or feature of DNA can contain this information? It has to come from the nitrogen bases, because, as you already know, the backbone of all DNA molecules is the same. But there are only four bases found in DNA : G, A, C, and T. The sequence of these four bases can provide all the instructions needed to build any living organism. It might be hard to imagine that 4 different “letters” can communicate so much information. But think about the English language, which can represent a huge amount of information using just 26 letters. Even more profound is the binary code used to write computer programs. This code contains only ones and zeros, and think of all the things your computer can do. The DNA alphabet can encode very complex instructions using just four letters, though the messages end up being really long. For example, the E. coli bacterium carries its genetic instructions in a DNA molecule that contains more than five million nucleotides. The human genome (all the DNA of an organism) consists of around three billion nucleotides divided up between 23 DNA molecules, or chromosomes. The information stored in the order of bases is organized into genes: each gene contains information for making a functional product. The genetic information is first copied to another nucleic acid polymer, RNA (ribonucleic acid), preserving the order of the nucleotide bases. Genes that contain instructions for making proteins are converted to messenger RNA (mRNA). Some specialized genes contain instructions for making functional RNA molecules that don’t make proteins. These RNA molecules function by affecting cellular processes directly; for example some of these RNA molecules regulate the expression of mRNA. Other genes produce RNA molecules that are required for protein synthesis, transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). In order for DNA to function effectively at storing information, two key processes are required. First, information stored in the DNA molecule must be copied, with minimal errors, every time a cell divides. This ensures that both daughter cells inherit the complete set of genetic information from the parent cell. Second, the information stored in the DNA molecule must be translated, or expressed. In order for the stored information to be useful, cells must be able to access the instructions for making specific proteins, so the correct proteins are made in the right place at the right time. Both copying and reading the information stored in DNA relies on base pairing between two nucleic acid polymer strands. Recall that DNA structure is a double helix (see figure below). DNA Structure (B-helix) Rotating this structure with your mouse will help you see the major and minor grooves in the helix. Structure of DNA double helix. On the left: Sugar-phosphate backbone is shown in yellow, specific base pairings via hydrogen bonds (red lines) are colored in green and purple (A-T pair) and red and blue (C-G). On the right: Three-dimensional structure of DNA double helix. Click on the checkboxes to highight the A-T and C-G basepairs. Click on 'Spin On' to automatically rotate the DNA helix structure. Graphic by Madeleine Price Ball (DNA chemical structure) CC-BY-SA-2.0 The sugar deoxyribose with the phosphate group forms the scaffold or backbone of the molecule (highlighted in yellow in the figure above). Bases point inward. Complementary bases form hydrogen bonds with each other within the double helix. See how the bigger bases (purines) pair with the smaller ones (pyrimidines). This keeps the width of the double helix constant. More specifically, A pairs with T and C pairs with G. As we discuss the function of DNA in subsequent sections, keep in mind that there is a chemical reason for specific pairing of bases. To illustrate the connection between information in DNA and an observable characteristic of an organism, let’s consider a gene that provides the instructions for building the hormone insulin. Insulin is responsible for regulating blood sugar levels. The insulin gene contains instructions for assembling the protein insulin from individual amino acids. Changing the sequence of nucleotides in the DNA molecule can change the amino acids in the final protein, leading to protein malfunction. If insulin does not function correctly, it might be unable to bind to another protein (insulin receptor). On the organismal level of organization, this molecular event (change of DNA sequence) can lead to a disease state — in this case, diabetes. The order of nucleotides in a gene (in DNA) is the key to how information is stored. For example, consider these two words: stable and tables. Both words are built from the same letters (subunits), but the different order of these subunits results in very different meanings. In DNA, the information is stored in units of 3 letters. Use the following key to decode the encrypted message. This should help you to see how information can be stored in the linear order of nucleotides in DNA. ABC = a DEF = d GHI = e JKL = f MNO = h PQR = i STU = m VWX = n YZA = o BCD = r EFG = s HIJ = t KLM = w   Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) Polymerase Chain Reaction You may remember from the movie Jurassic Park how the DNA of a dinosaur was recreated from a tiny amount of blood from a mosquito trapped in amber. While (so far) this is not possible in real life, the idea is based on one of the most useful tools for the manipulation of DNA: the polymerase chain reaction, or PCR. This technique was invented by Kary Mullis in 1983. PCR uses repeated cycles of DNA polymerase activity to amplify, or make many copies of, a small segment of DNA known as the target DNA. The target DNA resides within a larger DNA molecule that acts as a template. The amplified DNA, or PCR product, can also serve as a template, leading to a “chain reaction” that doubles the amount of PCR product after each cycle. Consequently, PCR can be used to amplify small amounts of DNA from forensic samples or historical artifacts. When scientists have a larger sample of DNA, they can determine the base sequence of the sample and use the data to compare the DNA sequences of different individuals. This process can help forensic scientists figure out the identity of a person who left blood at a crime scene. It can also help decide paternity disputes. By Karlmumm(Wikipedia) (PCR masina kasutamine) CC BY-SA 3.0 How does PCR work? PCR is essentially DNA replication, and just like DNA replication, PCR relies on the enzyme DNA polymerase. Because DNA polymerase requires a primer before it can start building a new strand of DNA, this is the first thing scientists must find (or design). These primers will provide a starting point for the DNA polymerase. In DNA replication, the primers are made of RNA nucleotides. In PCR, the primers are short DNA molecules consisting of a specific sequence that flanks the right and left ends of the target DNA sequence. The PCR product will contain the DNA sequences of the primers and the DNA between the primers. Overview of PCR. The target region is defined by the sequences of the two primers. The final PCR product contains the sequences of the two primers, plus any DNA sequences between the two. Steps of PCR Step 1: The DNA template and primers must be converted to single-strand DNA. In DNA replication, DNA is separated by helicase. In the lab, we can accomplish the same thing by heating the DNA to 98oC (almost boiling temperature). Step 2: In order for the DNA to be copied, the primers must bind. 98°C is too hot for the hydrogen bonds between complementary bases to form. Therefore, the reaction is cooled to ~55°C. This allows the hydrogen bonds between the primer and the target DNA sequence to form. Step 3: In step 3, the temperature is raised to ~78°C, which activates DNA polymerase and stimulates copying of the DNA. The polymerase begins at the primer and copies the DNA to the end of the template. After this process is complete, the temperature is again raised to 980C and a new cycle begins. At the end of each cycle, the sample contains double the amount of DNA template. Watch the following video to review the steps of PCR. Polymerase Chain Reaction You might wonder how the DNA polymerase, as a protein, can resist such a high temperature. In fact, the DNA polymerases used for PCR are derived from organisms that can live at extremely high temperatures. The most common DNA polymerase used for PCR is called Taq, and it is found in the microbe Thermus aquaticus, which was first discovered in the Lower Geyser Basin at Yellowstone National Park. Which of the following statements apply to DNA replication, PCR, or both? Select from the pull-down list. The table below lists the 3 steps of PCR. Complete the table by dragging the temperature typically used for each step and the description of what happens in each step on the molecular level. You may remember from the movie Jurassic Park how the DNA of a dinosaur was recreated from a tiny amount of blood from a mosquito trapped in amber. While (so far) this is not possible in real life, the idea is based on one of the most useful tools for the manipulation of DNA: the polymerase chain reaction, or PCR. This technique was invented by Kary Mullis in 1983. PCR uses repeated cycles of DNA polymerase activity to amplify, or make many copies of, a small segment of DNA known as the target DNA. The target DNA resides within a larger DNA molecule that acts as a template. The amplified DNA, or PCR product, can also serve as a template, leading to a “chain reaction” that doubles the amount of PCR product after each cycle. Consequently, PCR can be used to amplify small amounts of DNA from forensic samples or historical artifacts. When scientists have a larger sample of DNA, they can determine the base sequence of the sample and use the data to compare the DNA sequences of different individuals. This process can help forensic scientists figure out the identity of a person who left blood at a crime scene. It can also help decide paternity disputes. By Karlmumm(Wikipedia) (PCR masina kasutamine) CC BY-SA 3.0 PCR is essentially DNA replication, and just like DNA replication, PCR relies on the enzyme DNA polymerase. Because DNA polymerase requires a primer before it can start building a new strand of DNA, this is the first thing scientists must find (or design). These primers will provide a starting point for the DNA polymerase. In DNA replication, the primers are made of RNA nucleotides. In PCR, the primers are short DNA molecules consisting of a specific sequence that flanks the right and left ends of the target DNA sequence. The PCR product will contain the DNA sequences of the primers and the DNA between the primers. Overview of PCR. The target region is defined by the sequences of the two primers. The final PCR product contains the sequences of the two primers, plus any DNA sequences between the two. Steps of PCR Step 1: The DNA template and primers must be converted to single-strand DNA. In DNA replication, DNA is separated by helicase. In the lab, we can accomplish the same thing by heating the DNA to 98oC (almost boiling temperature). Step 2: In order for the DNA to be copied, the primers must bind. 98°C is too hot for the hydrogen bonds between complementary bases to form. Therefore, the reaction is cooled to ~55°C. This allows the hydrogen bonds between the primer and the target DNA sequence to form. Step 3: In step 3, the temperature is raised to ~78°C, which activates DNA polymerase and stimulates copying of the DNA. The polymerase begins at the primer and copies the DNA to the end of the template. After this process is complete, the temperature is again raised to 980C and a new cycle begins. At the end of each cycle, the sample contains double the amount of DNA template. Watch the following video to review the steps of PCR. Polymerase Chain Reaction You might wonder how the DNA polymerase, as a protein, can resist such a high temperature. In fact, the DNA polymerases used for PCR are derived from organisms that can live at extremely high temperatures. The most common DNA polymerase used for PCR is called Taq, and it is found in the microbe Thermus aquaticus, which was first discovered in the Lower Geyser Basin at Yellowstone National Park. Which of the following statements apply to DNA replication, PCR, or both? Select from the pull-down list. The table below lists the 3 steps of PCR. Complete the table by dragging the temperature typically used for each step and the description of what happens in each step on the molecular level. Step 1: The DNA template and primers must be converted to single-strand DNA. In DNA replication, DNA is separated by helicase. In the lab, we can accomplish the same thing by heating the DNA to 98oC (almost boiling temperature). Step 2: In order for the DNA to be copied, the primers must bind. 98°C is too hot for the hydrogen bonds between complementary bases to form. Therefore, the reaction is cooled to ~55°C. This allows the hydrogen bonds between the primer and the target DNA sequence to form. Step 3: In step 3, the temperature is raised to ~78°C, which activates DNA polymerase and stimulates copying of the DNA. The polymerase begins at the primer and copies the DNA to the end of the template. After this process is complete, the temperature is again raised to 980C and a new cycle begins. At the end of each cycle, the sample contains double the amount of DNA template. Watch the following video to review the steps of PCR. Polymerase Chain Reaction You might wonder how the DNA polymerase, as a protein, can resist such a high temperature. In fact, the DNA polymerases used for PCR are derived from organisms that can live at extremely high temperatures. The most common DNA polymerase used for PCR is called Taq, and it is found in the microbe Thermus aquaticus, which was first discovered in the Lower Geyser Basin at Yellowstone National Park. Which of the following statements apply to DNA replication, PCR, or both? Select from the pull-down list. The table below lists the 3 steps of PCR. Complete the table by dragging the temperature typically used for each step and the description of what happens in each step on the molecular level.   DNA Replication Before a cell can divide, it must first make a copy or replica of its DNA through a process called DNA replication. This process occurs during the S phase of the cell cycle, so by the time the cell enters the mitotic phase, there are two copies of the DNA molecule. This process of DNA replication takes place in the nucleus of the cell in eukaryotes, where the DNA molecule is found. It also occurs in the mitochondria in animal cells and chloroplasts in plant cells. Think about this: it is critical that the copies of the DNA are exactly like the original, so the daughter cells are identical to the parent cells. There may be changes to DNA sequence by mutations (as you will see in another section), and meiosis introduces some genetic variability when gametes are produced. But for unicellular organisms or for somatic cells, DNA replication is a process that requires high fidelity. The process of DNA replication is catalyzed by a type of enzyme called DNA polymerase (poly meaning many, mer meaning pieces, and ase meaning enzyme; so an enzyme that attaches many pieces of DNA). Observe the figure below: the double helix of the original DNA molecule separates (blue) and new strands are made to match the separated strands. The result will be two DNA molecules, each containing an old and a new strand. Therefore, DNA replication is called semiconservative. The term semiconservative refers to the fact that half of the original molecule (one of the two strands in the double helix) is “conserved” in the new molecule. The original strand is referred to as the template strand because it provides the information, or template, for the newly synthesized strand. By Madprime(wikipedia) (DNA replication split horizontal) CC BY-SA 2.0 DNA replication relies on the double-stranded nature of the molecule. One double stranded DNA molecule, when replicated, will become two double-stranded molecules, each containing one original strand and one newly synthesized strand. You remember that the two strands of DNA run antiparallel: one from the 5’ to the 3’, and the other from the 3’ to the 5’. The synthesis of the new DNA strand can only happen in one direction: from the 5’ to the 3’ end. In other words, the new bases are always added to the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA strand. So if the new nucleotide is always added to the 3’ end of an existing nucleotide, where does the first nucleotide come from? In fact, DNA polymerase needs an “anchor” to start adding nucleotides: a short sequence of DNA or RNA that is complementary to the template strand will work to provide a free 3’ end. This sequence is called a primer. How does DNA polymerase know in what order to add nucleotides? Specific base pairing in DNA is the key to copying the DNA: if you know the sequence of one strand, you can use base pairing rules to build the other strand. Bases form pairs (base pairs) in a very specific way. The figure shows how A (adenine) pairs with T (thymine) and G (guanine) pairs with C (cytosine). It is important to remember that this binding is specific: T pairs with A, but not with C. The molecular recognition occurs because of the ability of bases to form specific hydrogen bonds: atoms align just right to make hydrogen bonds possible. Also note that a larger base (purine, A or G) always pairs with a smaller base (pyrimidine, C or T). By Madeleine Price Ball (DNA chemical structure) CC-BY-SA-2.0 Now that you understand the basics of DNA replication, we can add a bit of complexity. The two strands of DNA have to be temporarily separated from each other; this job is done by a special enzyme, helicase, that helps unwind and separate the DNA helices. Another issue is that the DNA polymerase only works in one direction along the strand (5’ to 3’), but the double-stranded DNA has two strands oriented in opposite directions. This problem is solved by synthesizing the two strands slightly differently: one new strand grows continuously, the other in bits and pieces. Short fragments of RNA are used as primers for the DNA polymerase. By Mariana Ruiz (DNA replication) Public Domain   DNA Replication Before a cell can divide, it must first make a copy or replica of its DNA through a process called DNA replication. This process occurs during the S phase of the cell cycle, so by the time the cell enters the mitotic phase, there are two copies of the DNA molecule. This process of DNA replication takes place in the nucleus of the cell in eukaryotes, where the DNA molecule is found. It also occurs in the mitochondria in animal cells and chloroplasts in plant cells. Think about this: it is critical that the copies of the DNA are exactly like the original, so the daughter cells are identical to the parent cells. There may be changes to DNA sequence by mutations (as you will see in another section), and meiosis introduces some genetic variability when gametes are produced. But for unicellular organisms or for somatic cells, DNA replication is a process that requires high fidelity. The process of DNA replication is catalyzed by a type of enzyme called DNA polymerase (poly meaning many, mer meaning pieces, and ase meaning enzyme; so an enzyme that attaches many pieces of DNA). Observe the figure below: the double helix of the original DNA molecule separates (blue) and new strands are made to match the separated strands. The result will be two DNA molecules, each containing an old and a new strand. Therefore, DNA replication is called semiconservative. The term semi-conservative refers to the fact that half of the original molecule (one of the two strands in the double helix) is “conserved” in the new molecule. The original strand is referred to as the template strand because it provides the information, or template, for the newly synthesized strand. Biological organisms have been shown to replicate their DNA by semi-conservative synthesis. By Madprime(wikipedia) (DNA replication split horizontal) CC BY-SA 2.0 The “Learn More…” activity that follows illustrates the Meselson-Stahl experiment that was performed to prove the mechanism for DNA replication within biological systems. DNA Replication Mechanism Meselson and Stah conducted experiments with E. coli cells to determmine how DNA replication occurs. The image below shows the data from the Meselson and Stahl experiment that proved that DNA replication is semi-conservative. If DNA replication were conservative instead of semi-conservative, which of the following images would you expect to represent the data? DNA replication relies on the double-stranded nature of the molecule. One double stranded DNA molecule, when replicated, will become two double-stranded molecules, each containing one original strand and one newly synthesized strand. You remember that the two strands of DNA run antiparallel: one from the 5’ to the 3’, and the other from the 3’ to the 5’. The synthesis of the new DNA strand can only happen in one direction: from the 5’ to the 3’ end. In other words, the new bases are always added to the 3’ end of the newly synthesized DNA strand. So if the new nucleotide is always added to the 3’ end of an existing nucleotide, where does the first nucleotide come from? In fact, DNA polymerase needs an “anchor” to start adding nucleotides: a short sequence of DNA or RNA that is complementary to the template strand will work to provide a free 3’ end. This sequence is called a primer. How does DNA polymerase know in what order to add nucleotides? Specific base pairing in DNA is the key to copying the DNA: if you know the sequence of one strand, you can use base pairing rules to build the other strand. Bases form pairs (base pairs) in a very specific way. The figure shows how A (adenine) pairs with T (thymine) and G (guanine) pairs with C (cytosine). It is important to remember that this binding is specific: T pairs with A, but not with C. The molecular recognition occurs because of the ability of bases to form specific hydrogen bonds: atoms align just right to make hydrogen bonds possible. Also note that a larger base (purine, A or G) always pairs with a smaller base (pyrimidine, C or T). By Madeleine Price Ball (DNA chemical structure) CC-BY-SA-2.0 Now that you understand the basics of DNA replication, we can add a bit of complexity. The two strands of DNA have to be temporarily separated from each other; this job is done by a special enzyme, helicase, that helps unwind and separate the DNA helices. Another issue is that the DNA polymerase only works in one direction along the strand (5’ to 3’), but the double-stranded DNA has two strands oriented in opposite directions. This problem is solved by synthesizing the two strands slightly differently: one new strand grows continuously, the other in bits and pieces. Short fragments of RNA are used as primers for the DNA polymerase. By Mariana Ruiz (DNA replication) Public Domain   DNA Function: Summary Summary DNA replication is essential for the continuity of genetic information throughout generations. A cell that is preparing to divide will replicate its DNA, using a variety of enzymes working in concert. Our understanding of DNA replication machinery has opened the door for a variety of advances, including the process of PCR. PCR is used to make many copies of a small segment of DNA, and it can be used to identify individual DNA samples. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. amino acids chloroplast chromosome DNA polymerase DNA replication genes genome mitochondria mRNA nucleotides rRNA ribosome tRNA DNA replication is essential for the continuity of genetic information throughout generations. A cell that is preparing to divide will replicate its DNA, using a variety of enzymes working in concert. Our understanding of DNA replication machinery has opened the door for a variety of advances, including the process of PCR. PCR is used to make many copies of a small segment of DNA, and it can be used to identify individual DNA samples. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. amino acids chloroplast chromosome DNA polymerase DNA replication genes genome mitochondria mRNA nucleotides rRNA ribosome tRNA   DNA Function: Summary Summary DNA replication is essential for the continuity of genetic information throughout generations. A cell that is preparing to divide will replicate its DNA, using a variety of enzymes working in concert. Our understanding of DNA replication machinery has opened the door for a variety of advances, including the process of PCR. PCR is used to make many copies of a small segment of DNA, and it can be used to identify individual DNA samples. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. amino acids chloroplast chromosome DNA polymerase DNA replication genes genome mitochondria mRNA nucleotides rRNA ribosome tRNA DNA replication is essential for the continuity of genetic information throughout generations. A cell that is preparing to divide will replicate its DNA, using a variety of enzymes working in concert. Our understanding of DNA replication machinery has opened the door for a variety of advances, including the process of PCR. PCR is used to make many copies of a small segment of DNA, and it can be used to identify individual DNA samples. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. amino acids chloroplast chromosome DNA polymerase DNA replication genes genome mitochondria mRNA nucleotides rRNA ribosome tRNA   RNA Synthesis Transcription The process of DNA transcription is described as DNA-directed RNA synthesis. This process, which takes place in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, has many similarities with DNA replication. The enzyme to catalyze the process is RNA Polymerase that likewise has some characteristics similar to those of DNA polymerase used in replication but it also has significant differences. The DNA must be unwound starting at a specific DNA sequence Replication – Origin of Replication Transcription – The Promoter The process requires a template that is DNA Replication – Complementary copies of both strands are created simultaneously Transcription – A complementary copy is made of one strand The process does not require a primer Replication – A primer with a 3’ hydroxyl is required for DNA polymerase Transcription – No primer is required for RNA polymerase Synthesis is unidirectional in the 5’ to 3’ direction Synthesis requires four nucleotide triphosphates Replication – deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates include dATP, dGTP, dCTP, dTTP Transcription – ribonucleotide triphosphates include ATP, GTP, CTP, UTP The Operon The organization of the genetic information on the chromosomes of prokaryotes and eukaryotes is different. In each case, as indicated below, the sequence for initiation of transcription is the promoter and the sequence signaling the end of transcription is the Terminator. However, in eukaryotes there is generally one gene that codes for one product under the control of a single promoter. In contrast, prokaryotes generally have multiple genes, each coding for a separate product, under the control of a single promoter. This unit of a promoter, a terminator and the intervening gene or genes is called an operon. The operon also contains the controlling elements for the operon. The control of expression of an operon is the topic for a separate unit. Eukaryotic Operon Prokaryotic Operon The Promoter RNA polymerase is an example of a quaternary structure composed of a core protein for the synthesis the complementary RNA strand and a subunit, the Sigma subunit, that first binds to the promoter region of the Operon and creates an open complex by unwinding the double stranded DNA. The promoter region of the operon is critical in defining how much or the frequency with which transcription of an operon takes place. Promoters have different sequences. The sigma subunit binds to the different promoter sequences with different affinities. In the illustration below, the sigma subunit binds to both of the promoters and a dissociation constant, Kd, can be written for each binding. Different promoters result in different Kd values. Promoters can be characterized as being strong or weak promoters depending on their affinity for RNA polymerase. The result of a strong promoter with a high affinity (tight binding) to RNA polymerase is a greater frequency of starting transcription from that promoter. Therefore, more product from transcription initiated at a strong promoter is possible compared to product formation initiated from a weak promoter in the same amount of time. RNA Synthesis Once RNA polymerase binds to the promoter, initiation of RNA synthesis or Transcription proceeds. The following animation depicts the steps of transcription. The Products of Transcription The product of the process of transcription is RNA. There are three distinctly different RNA products that result from transcription based on their function within the cell. Ribosomal-RNA (rRNA) is a large defined length of RNA that when processed is folded into a tertiary structure that is the scaffolding for the structure of the ribosome. The ribosome is a protein-RNA complex quaternary structure where protein synthesis (translation) takes place. Messenger-RNA (mRNA) is a variable length of RNA whose length is dependent on the length of the coding needed to produce a protein by translation. This RNA is the message that carries the information that codes for the synthesis of a protein. It has a relatively short lifetime in the cell. Transfer-RNA (tRNA) is a set of short RNA molecules generally 75-80 nucleotides in length. Each tRNA molecule is specific for transporting a specific amino acid to the ribosome during protein synthesis (translation). All of the tRNA molecules have a common, compact tertiary structure. Each of the RNA classes (rRNA, mRNA, and tRNA) is produced during transcription using a different RNA polymerase. rRNA – RNA polymerase I mRNA – RNA polymerase II tRNA – RNA polymerase III Bioselectivity describes the discrimination of a specific RNA polymerase for a specific promoter yielding different RNA products. Equilibrium binding of the polymerase with the promoter explains the differential production of products using the same polymerase and different promoter sequences. Messenger-RNA (mRNA) Processing Steps   Central Dogma The flow of information in a cell is described by the central dogma of molecular biology. In eukaryotic cells, DNA stores the genetic information, which is passed from generation to generation through the process of DNA replication. During replication, the whole sequence of DNA is copied. In order for the information stored in DNA to be used by a living cell, the information must be expressed (gene expression). First, DNA is transcribed into one form of RNA called messenger RNA, or mRNA, through the process of transcription; then mRNA can be translated into an amino acid sequence forming a protein through the process of translation. The ribosome translates the RNA sequence into a protein sequence, using three nucleotide bases to encode each amino acid. DNA also encodes two other RNA molecules, transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). Although these RNA molecules do not directly encode proteins, they are both required for protein synthesis. Transcription and translation are often confused. Transcription is copying the information without changing the language. This word comes from the same root as scribe, a word that describes someone who made copies of books in medieval times. DNA and RNA are considered the same chemical “language” because their monomers are nucleotides. Now, compare transcription to translation. Just as translators of books change information from one language to another, the cellular process of translation changes information from the language of nucleic acids (using nucleotides as the monomers) into the language of proteins (using amino acids as monomers). A scribe copying information by Meister des Maréchal de Boucicaut; artwork in the public domain. On right, a dictionary used to translate from the language of English to Spanish. Note that there are exceptions to the central dogma. It is thought that during the dawn of life, RNA was the first molecule to store genetic information, and certain viruses still have RNA as their nucleic acid component. In fact, certain viruses (among them the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV) have an enzyme capable of making DNA using RNA as a template. However, you will recall that viruses are not cells, so it is safe to say that cells use DNA as their genetic material, and the flow of information goes as follows: Gene expression, a process that is central to all living cells, can be summarized as a list of the following steps: the DNA double helix is separated an enzyme called RNA polymerase moves along one strand and transcribes the information from one strand of DNA into a strand of RNA the ribosome translates the RNA sequence into a protein sequence. In eukaryotes, DNA and ribosomes reside in separate compartments, so an additional step is required: the transportation of RNA out of the nucleus and into the cytoplasm. The animation below illustrates the process of gene expression in eukaryotes. Watch the animation, and then label still frames of the animation in the Learn By Doing activity.   Central Dogma The flow of information in a cell is described by the central dogma of molecular biology. In eukaryotic cells, DNA stores the genetic information, which is passed from generation to generation through the process of DNA replication. During replication, the whole sequence of DNA is copied. In order for the information stored in DNA to be used by a living cell, the information must be expressed (gene expression). First, DNA is transcribed into one form of RNA called messenger RNA, or mRNA, through the process of transcription; then mRNA can be translated into an amino acid sequence forming a protein through the process of translation. The ribosome translates the RNA sequence into a protein sequence, using three nucleotide bases to encode each amino acid. DNA also encodes two other RNA molecules, transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA). Although these RNA molecules do not directly encode proteins, they are both required for protein synthesis. Transcription and translation are often confused. Transcription is copying the information without changing the language. This word comes from the same root as scribe, a word that describes someone who made copies of books in medieval times. DNA and RNA are considered the same chemical “language” because their monomers are nucleotides. Now, compare transcription to translation. Just as translators of books change information from one language to another, the cellular process of translation changes information from the language of nucleic acids (using nucleotides as the monomers) into the language of proteins (using amino acids as monomers). A scribe copying information by Meister des Maréchal de Boucicaut; artwork in the public domain. On right, a dictionary used to translate from the language of English to Spanish. Note that there are exceptions to the central dogma. It is thought that during the dawn of life, RNA was the first molecule to store genetic information, and certain viruses still have RNA as their nucleic acid component. In fact, certain viruses (among them the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV) have an enzyme capable of making DNA using RNA as a template. However, you will recall that viruses are not cells, so it is safe to say that cells use DNA as their genetic material, and the flow of information goes as follows: Gene expression, a process that is central to all living cells, can be summarized as a list of the following steps: the DNA double helix is separated an enzyme called RNA polymerase moves along one strand and transcribes the information from one strand of DNA into a strand of RNA the ribosome translates the RNA sequence into a protein sequence. In eukaryotes, DNA and ribosomes reside in separate compartments, so an additional step is required: the transportation of RNA out of the nucleus and into the cytoplasm. The animation below illustrates the process of gene expression in eukaryotes. Watch the animation, and then label still frames of the animation in the Learn By Doing activity.   Introduction to Gene Expression In the previous module, you learned how genetic information is stored in DNA and how it is passed in its totality to the next generation through the process of DNA replication. You also read about PCR, a practical application of the DNA synthesis process. In this module, we will focus on how this information is expressed. Information contained in DNA is organized into genes, and each gene contains instructions for making a functional product: an RNA molecule or a protein. This process of making the functional gene product is gene expression. Different cells can contain the same DNA, but they express different genes and produce different proteins according to their function. For example, red blood cells produce the protein hemoglobin, which is required for delivery of oxygen throughout the body. Nerve cells contain the same DNA, but the hemoglobin gene is not expressed. Instead, nerve cells make RNA copies of the genes that encode proteins required for signaling. Both a nerve cell (left) and a red blood cell (right) develop from cells that have identical DNA, but the expression of different genes leads to structural and functional differences between the cells. Even cells of the same type may express different genes and therefore produce different proteins, depending on their needs or environmental conditions. For example, pancreatic beta cells produce insulin when blood sugar levels are increased. Weightlifting increases muscle mass because it increases the production of proteins in the muscle cell. Sex hormones are not produced until the beginning of puberty. Multiple proteins expressed at specific levels at specific times in the cell determine the phenotype. In this module, we will consider each of these processes in more detail, and we will conclude by looking at how changes in DNA sequence can affect the proteins encoded by DNA.   Mutation None of the processes discussed so far are free of errors. Errors can be made during transcription if incorrect nucleotides are incorporated into the growing RNA strands. Errors can happen during translation if incorrect amino acids are inserted into a growing protein, or if translation is terminated too soon. Errors during gene expression have generally short-lived effects and can be overcome by additional RNA or protein synthesis. Errors during DNA replication can have a much longer lasting effect. If incorrect nucleotides are incorporated into a newly synthesized DNA strand, the error may be passed on to future generations. Such heritable changes are referred to as mutations. Some mutations happen due to large scale rearrangements of DNA molecules that involve thousands or millions of nucleotides. We will limit our discussion here to small-scale changes that involve one or a few nucleotides in the coding sequence of a gene. These mutations include substitution of a single nucleotide base and insertion or deletion of one or more bases. Let us consider how different types of mutations affect the proteins encoded by DNA. The sentence below represents a protein-coding gene. Each three letter word carries some meaning – equivalent to each amino acid being encoded by a three-letter codon in DNA. THE CAT ATE THE HEN Silent mutations. A silent mutation changes the letter, but not the meaning. Recall that the genetic code is redundant: multiple combinations of three bases can encode the same amino acid. THe CAT ATE THE HEN Missense mutations. A missense mutation changes a letter in DNA and also changes the encoded amino acid. It changes the meaning of the message as below: THE BAT ATE THE HEN Nonsense mutations. A nonsense mutation changes an amino acid codon to a stop codon, terminating transcription: THE stop Frameshift mutations. A frameshift mutation occurs when one or two bases are inserted into or deleted from a sequence. As a result, subsequent codons are read incorrectly in new groupings of three bases each: Deletion of one nucleotide: introduces frame shift TH|C ATA TET HEH EN (deletion of one base, the "E" in "THE") Deletion of three nucleotides removes information, but no frame shift. THH ECA TAT ETH EHE N (insertion of one base, an extra "H" in "THE") There are many possible variations on the mutation types above. For example, three bases may be deleted in a group corresponding to one existing codon. In this rare instance, there would be no frame shift but a single amino acid would be missing from the encoded protein: THE | ATE THE HEN Compare the sentences above resulting from different types of mutation: Does the meaning of the message remain recognizable? The activity below will help you summarize key points from your comparison. In this activity, we will demonstrate the mutations described above on a short protein sequence. Next, we apply the classification above to an actual mutation observed in human DNA. The activity below deals with a mutation in the gene that encodes the oxygen transport protein hemoglobin. The mutation causes hemoglobin to form long rods inside red blood cells. As a result, it is difficult for the cells to pass through blood vessels. This leads to a disease called sickle cell anemia in many of those who inherit the mutation. The DNA sequence, Protein sequence, and AA position lines need to be reformatted. In particular the position numbers need fixing so that there are consistent spaces between the numbers; each should be a single digit. One good way to do this is to use a Table so that all the codons, amino acids, and position numbers are aligned in consistent columns. The end result should look something like this: Wild-Type Sequence DNA CTG ACT CCT GAG GAG AAG TCT Protein Leu Thr Pro Glu Glu Lys Ser Amino Acid position 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Sickle Cell Sequence DNA CTG ACT CCT GTG GAG AAG TCT   Mutation None of the processes discussed so far are free of errors. Errors can be made during transcription if incorrect nucleotides are incorporated into the growing RNA strands. Errors can happen during translation if incorrect amino acids are inserted into a growing protein, or if translation is terminated too soon. Errors during gene expression have generally short-lived effects and can be overcome by additional RNA or protein synthesis. Errors during DNA replication can have a much longer lasting effect. If incorrect nucleotides are incorporated into a newly synthesized DNA strand, the error may be passed on to future generations. Such heritable changes are referred to as mutations. Some mutations happen due to large scale rearrangements of DNA molecules that involve thousands or millions of nucleotides. We will limit our discussion here to small-scale changes that involve one or a few nucleotides in the coding sequence of a gene. These mutations include substitution of a single nucleotide base and insertion or deletion of one or more bases. Let us consider how different types of mutations affect the proteins encoded by DNA. The sentence below represents a protein-coding gene. Each three letter word carries some meaning – equivalent to each amino acid being encoded by a three-letter codon in DNA. THE CAT ATE THE HEN Silent mutations. A silent mutation changes the letter, but not the meaning. Recall that the genetic code is redundant: multiple combinations of three bases can encode the same amino acid. THe CAT ATE THE HEN Missense mutations. A missense mutation changes a letter in DNA and also changes the encoded amino acid. It changes the meaning of the message as below: THE BAT ATE THE HEN Nonsense mutations. A nonsense mutation changes an amino acid codon to a stop codon, terminating transcription: THE stop Frameshift mutations. A frameshift mutation occurs when one or two bases are inserted into or deleted from a sequence. As a result, subsequent codons are read incorrectly in new groupings of three bases each: Deletion of one nucleotide: introduces frame shift TH|C ATA TET HEH EN (deletion of one base, the "E" in "THE") Deletion of three nucleotides removes information, but no frame shift. THH ECA TAT ETH EHE N (insertion of one base, an extra "H" in "THE") There are many possible variations on the mutation types above. For example, three bases may be deleted in a group corresponding to one existing codon. In this rare instance, there would be no frame shift but a single amino acid would be missing from the encoded protein: THE | ATE THE HEN Compare the sentences above resulting from different types of mutation: Does the meaning of the message remain recognizable? The activity below will help you summarize key points from your comparison. In this activity, we will demonstrate the mutations described above on a short protein sequence. Next, we apply the classification above to an actual mutation observed in human DNA. The activity below deals with a mutation in the gene that encodes the oxygen transport protein hemoglobin. The mutation causes hemoglobin to form long rods inside red blood cells. As a result, it is difficult for the cells to pass through blood vessels. This leads to a disease called sickle cell anemia in many of those who inherit the mutation. Sickle Cell Anemia Below you are given a sequence in the middle of the DNA template for the normal (wild-type) hemoglobin gene. Also given is the amino acid sequence and the amino acid position; notice how each is aligned to the DNA template sequence. In humans, a mutation can occur in this gene resulting in a change in the hemoglobin amino acid sequence, and ultimately, a change in the protein shape and function. This mutation caused a disease called sickle cell anemia. You are shown the same sequence of template DNA for the mutated, sickle cell, sequence. Analyze both sequences and answer the questions below. Wild-Type Sequence DNA CTG ACT CCT GAG GAG AAG TCT Protein Leu Thr Pro Glu Glu Lys Ser Amino Acid position 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Sickle Cell Sequence DNA CTG ACT CCT GTG GAG AAG TCT   Transcription: Making RNA During gene expression, information stored in DNA is first copied (or transcribed) into RNA in a process called transcription. Only one of the two DNA strands is transcribed, and the order of bases in RNA is determined by the base pairing of the ribonucleotides with the DNA. In RNA, the base T is absent and U is present instead. As you know, A pairs with T, but because T is replaced by U in RNA, A pairs with U in RNA. If the transcribed DNA strand has the sequence: 5’... AATTGCGC... 3’ 3’... TTAACGCG... 5’ and the bottom stand is used as a template to produce the RNA copy, the sequence of the RNA will be: 5’ ... AAUUGCGC ... 3’ - transcribed RNA strand 3’... TTAACGCG ... 5’ - template DNA strand Note that the transcribed RNA has exactly the same sequence as the upper DNA strand, but with T replaced by U. Determine whether the following describe transcription only, replication only or both.   Post Transcription Post-Transcriptional Modification The products of transcription, rRNA, tRNA and mRNA, are each used for different functions within the cell but are all essential to protein synthesis. They each also undergo change or modification before they are used to carry out their specific function. This process of change after transcription from DNA to RNA is called post-transcriptional modification. For ribosomal-RNA (rRNA)the modification involves cutting of the original long segment of RNA transcript into fragments. The processing of the RNA takes place in the nucleus and the fragments are used in the nucleoli where ribosomes are assembled. For transfer-RNA (tRNA), the RNA transcript has a segment of the 5’ end removed, a trinucleotide that is common to all tRNAs (ACC) added to the 3’ end, and a short segment of RNA spliced out of the middle of the RNA sequence. In addition, several of the bases in the structure are chemically modified after the final sequence is generated. The most extensively modified transcript is messenger-RNA (mRNA) in eukaryotic organisms. For this reason, the primary transcript or mRNA before it is modified is referred to as pre-mRNA. After transcription a “5’cap” is added to the transcript. This “cap” is a GTP that is added through the 5’ position of the GTP to the 5’ end of the transcript. This results in a free 3’OH of the guanine nucleotide on the 5’ end of the transcript. As we will see in the next unit, the 5’-cap is a signal used in binding the eukaryotic message to the ribosome to initiate protein synthesis. A second post-transcriptional modification is the addition of a “polyA tail” onto the 3’ end of the transcript. A specific enzyme adds 100 to 500 adenine nucleotides to the 3’ end. Once the mRNA is transported to the cytoplasm from the nucleus, it is thought that the polyA tail acts as a clock to measure the lifetime of the message. A 3’- exonuclease is an enzyme that removes nucleotides one at a time from the 3’ end. If one assumes that it removes nucleotides at a constant rate, the message can be actively used from 3 minutes to 4-5 hours, depending on the length of the tail, before it becomes inactive due to the loss of the “tail.” The addition of the 5’-cap and the polyA tail are depicted in the figure above. But, one of the most intriguing post-transcriptional modifications is the splicing out of segments of the mRNA called Introns. Introns are sequences that do not code for protein, are interspersed in the original DNA and are removed from the RNA transcript by the process of splicing. The splicing is carried out by a complex (quaternary structure) of proteins referred to as the splicesome composed of SnRNPs (Small Nuclear RiboNucleoProteins). The segments of RNA that do code for protein are called Exons. Signaled by nucleotide sequences in the ends of the introns, the splicesome brings together the 3’ end of one exon with the 5’ end of the next exon and cuts out the intervening intron. The product is the end-to-end spliced exons and a segment of removed RNA that was the intron in the shape of a lariat. The figure above illustrates the process. After completion of the splicing, the mature mRNA is exported to the cytoplasm where it is used in protein synthesis (Translation). Introns do not exist in prokaryotes. Recently, research has found that a number of mRNA sequences undergo what is referred to as alternative-splicing. If normal splicing is from the 3’ end of one exon and the 5’ end of the immediately following exon, imagine the number of possible splices that could occur if the 3’ end of the exon could be joined to the 5’ end of any exon downstream from the first exon. For example, if an mRNA had three exons, 1, 2, and 3 in order, and two introns, the normal sequence of splicing would link exon 1 to exon 2 to exon 3. But it would be possible to link exon 1 to exon 3 to create a “new” protein with only two of the three exons. This allows a single gene with multiple exons to represent many different proteins. Errors in splicing have also been found to be the cause of certain diseases.   Genes and Environment In the previous sections of this module, we discussed the structure and organization of genes and genomes. Throughout the molecular genetics module, we have been pointing out the connections between genotype and phenotype. Here, we will discuss the other important factor in determining the phenotype of an organism: environment. The effects of environment on phenotype can be fairly subtle or pretty dramatic. In certain groups of cold-blooded animals, such as Nile crocodiles, sex is determined by an environmental factor: average temperature during the middle third of the incubation period. Males will only hatch at temperatures between 89.1° and 94.1°F. Nests with higher or lower temperatures will produce predominantly females. How does environment exert its influence on phenotype? Recall that at the molecular and cellular levels, phenotype depends on the molecules produced by the cell. Production of all molecules is catalyzed by protein enzymes that are encoded by the genome of the organism. Ultimately, if phenotype depends on protein function, then the environment must have a way of modifying the amount and the activity of proteins. Using the central dogma of molecular biology, we can deduce that environment may affect protein function at the level of protein, mRNA, or DNA. Changes in protein function Cells and organisms have to respond to changes in their environment. An organism that experiences a sudden increase in temperature will respond with increased expression of genes coding for heat-shock proteins; these proteins protect cells from damaged and unfolded proteins. A bacterial cell that depletes glucose in its environment will not die of starvation if an alternative energy source is available. In the presence of lactose, bacteria can "turn on" the lac operon containing genes required for metabolism of lactose. Regulation of this operon will be discussed in detail on the next page. The signaling occurs primarily through binding interactions between molecules and modifications of the proteins that often lead to changes in gene expression. These changes are short-lived and are not heritable. Changes in DNA sequence Long-term heritable changes can be produced by the environment at the level of DNA. Any environmental influence that can damage DNA has the potential to create mutations that can result in changing amino acid sequence of a protein or regulatory information. For example, high-energy radiation causes double-stranded breaks in DNA that can lead to deletions. UV light causes single nucleotide changes in DNA. Environmental toxins and viruses also cause mutations. Cumulative DNA damage in somatic cells throughout an organism’s lifetime contributes to the aging process. Only mutations in germ cells result in heritable changes passed on to the next generation of offspring. Heritable changes in gene expression can occur via changes in DNA sequence or in DNA packaging. Mutations in regulatory regions of the gene can lead to increased or decreased protein production without affecting the amino acid sequence of the protein. One example of such mutation is found in the regulatory region of the human LCT gene on chromosome 2. The LCT gene codes for the enzyme lactase, required for breaking down lactose into glucose and galactose. In many adults, expression of the LCT gene is turned off or turned down, resulting in little or no lactase production. Lack of lactase in the intestines can lead to gastrointestinal distress (bloating, cramps, diarrhea, etc.) after consumption of moderate to large amounts of dairy products, giving rise to a condition called lactose intolerance. Other people are able to produce lactase well into adulthood. This ability has been linked to mutations in the regulatory region of the lactase gene that allow gene expression to continue after childhood. Changes in DNA packing Heritable changes in DNA packaging do not involve any changes in DNA sequence. This type of inheritance is epigenetic (from the Greek epi-, meaning over, above, or outside). You will recall from the previous page that compact packaging of DNA leads to gene silencing (transcriptionally inactive genes). Compact packaging of DNA requires modifications to DNA itself and to histones, which are DNA-binding proteins involved in packaging. DNA modification involves the addition of a methyl group (-CH3) to specific bases on DNA (cytosine methylation), but does not change the sequence of DNA bases. The methylation pattern can be preserved during DNA replication, so the daughter cells will have the same methylation pattern as the parent cell. In germ cells, the pattern of DNA methylation can be passed through the gametes to the next generation of offspring. One example of epigenetic silencing in somatic cells is common to all female mammals. One of the two X chromosomes in females is inactivated by epigenetic mechanisms (DNA methylation and histone modifications). The results of X-inactivation can be observed in calico or tortoiseshell cats. These cats are almost always female. The gene encoding the coat color resides on the X chromosome. A female cat (with two X chromosomes) could potentially carry one allele for a black coat and one allele for an orange coat. As a result, her phenotype will end up with patches of two different colors. This is because cells that inactivate the X chromosome with the black allele will express the orange allele, and after multiple cell divisions, a patch of orange fur will result. Cells that inactivate the X chromosome carrying the orange allele will give rise to black patches. The specific pattern of black and orange patches is not heritable because X-inactivation is random. By Michael Bodega (6-year old tortoise shell cat) Public Domain Epigenetic regulation and inheritance has been linked to cancer and obesity, aging and longevity, and other important processes. It is the key mechanism for interactions between genes and environment. Unlike the genome, which remains fairly unchanged throughout an organism’s life cycle, the epigenome (consisting of the pattern of DNA methylation and histone modifications) is dynamic, responds to the environment, and can be heritable. In summary, environment can influence phenotype by interacting with the genome in the following ways: Environmental signals can change gene expression by affecting regulatory proteins. Environmental signals can change DNA packaging, which affects gene expression. Environmental mutagens can cause mutations in DNA. Cells and organisms have to respond to changes in their environment. An organism that experiences a sudden increase in temperature will respond with increased expression of genes coding for heat-shock proteins; these proteins protect cells from damaged and unfolded proteins. A bacterial cell that depletes glucose in its environment will not die of starvation if an alternative energy source is available. In the presence of lactose, bacteria can "turn on" the lac operon containing genes required for metabolism of lactose. Regulation of this operon will be discussed in detail on the next page. The signaling occurs primarily through binding interactions between molecules and modifications of the proteins that often lead to changes in gene expression. These changes are short-lived and are not heritable. Long-term heritable changes can be produced by the environment at the level of DNA. Any environmental influence that can damage DNA has the potential to create mutations that can result in changing amino acid sequence of a protein or regulatory information. For example, high-energy radiation causes double-stranded breaks in DNA that can lead to deletions. UV light causes single nucleotide changes in DNA. Environmental toxins and viruses also cause mutations. Cumulative DNA damage in somatic cells throughout an organism’s lifetime contributes to the aging process. Only mutations in germ cells result in heritable changes passed on to the next generation of offspring. Heritable changes in gene expression can occur via changes in DNA sequence or in DNA packaging. Mutations in regulatory regions of the gene can lead to increased or decreased protein production without affecting the amino acid sequence of the protein. One example of such mutation is found in the regulatory region of the human LCT gene on chromosome 2. The LCT gene codes for the enzyme lactase, required for breaking down lactose into glucose and galactose. In many adults, expression of the LCT gene is turned off or turned down, resulting in little or no lactase production. Lack of lactase in the intestines can lead to gastrointestinal distress (bloating, cramps, diarrhea, etc.) after consumption of moderate to large amounts of dairy products, giving rise to a condition called lactose intolerance. Other people are able to produce lactase well into adulthood. This ability has been linked to mutations in the regulatory region of the lactase gene that allow gene expression to continue after childhood. Heritable changes in DNA packaging do not involve any changes in DNA sequence. This type of inheritance is epigenetic (from the Greek epi-, meaning over, above, or outside). You will recall from the previous page that compact packaging of DNA leads to gene silencing (transcriptionally inactive genes). Compact packaging of DNA requires modifications to DNA itself and to histones, which are DNA-binding proteins involved in packaging. DNA modification involves the addition of a methyl group (-CH3) to specific bases on DNA (cytosine methylation), but does not change the sequence of DNA bases. The methylation pattern can be preserved during DNA replication, so the daughter cells will have the same methylation pattern as the parent cell. In germ cells, the pattern of DNA methylation can be passed through the gametes to the next generation of offspring. One example of epigenetic silencing in somatic cells is common to all female mammals. One of the two X chromosomes in females is inactivated by epigenetic mechanisms (DNA methylation and histone modifications). The results of X-inactivation can be observed in calico or tortoiseshell cats. These cats are almost always female. The gene encoding the coat color resides on the X chromosome. A female cat (with two X chromosomes) could potentially carry one allele for a black coat and one allele for an orange coat. As a result, her phenotype will end up with patches of two different colors. This is because cells that inactivate the X chromosome with the black allele will express the orange allele, and after multiple cell divisions, a patch of orange fur will result. Cells that inactivate the X chromosome carrying the orange allele will give rise to black patches. The specific pattern of black and orange patches is not heritable because X-inactivation is random.   Genome Structure and Packaging After considering individual genes, let’s zoom out and consider a more global view: how genes are organized into genomes. The prokaryotic genome resides on a circular piece of double-stranded DNA; there is no membrane to separate DNA from the rest of the cell. Most bacterial genomes are several million nucleotides long. The E. coli genome, for example, is approximately 5 million nucleotides long. Although this is a relatively small genome, the physical length of the DNA is longer than the length of the bacterial cell. In order to condense the DNA into a smaller size, the DNA is supercoiled. In supercoiled DNA, the double helix of the DNA contains additional turns beyond the normal one turn per 10 base pairs. These additional twists introduce strain into the DNA that is relieved by large-scale twists in the entire DNA molecule, or supercoils. A good model for supercoiling is an old-fashioned spiral phone cord. If you form the cord into a circle, and then rotate or twist one of the free ends relative to the other, you will introduce supercoils into the cord. Many bacteria contain smaller, circular DNA molecules, called plasmids, in addition to the large DNA molecule that is their chromosome. Plasmids can replicate independently of the large DNA and can be transferred to other cells. Some naturally occurring plasmids carry genes encoding toxins and proteins that make bacteria resistant to antibiotics. By Spaully(Wikipedia) (Plasmid) CC BY-SA 2.5 Plasmids provide a very useful tool for biotechnology. Scientists use them to insert “foreign” genes into bacteria so they can use the bacteria as “factories” to produce desired proteins. For example, to study a human disease caused by a malfunction in a specific protein, scientists need a large amount of the protein for experiments. Instead of purifying protein from human cells, scientists can combine coding DNA from the human genome with bacterial regulatory DNA regions on a plasmid, and introduce the plasmid carrying human gene into the bacteria. Growing a large amount of bacterial cells is much easier than obtaining large amounts of human cells. Combining DNA from different organisms is called recombinant DNA technology. A eukaryotic genome resides on multiple linear DNA molecules in the nucleus. Each of these DNA molecules is called a chromosome. Eukaryotic cells also contain DNA in mitochondria and chloroplasts; mitochondrial and chloroplast genomes are circular like those of bacteria, and are typically considered separately from eukaryotic genomes. In general, eukaryotic genomes are much larger than prokaryotic genomes, and they contain a lot more noncoding DNA. This presents a problem of packaging for eukaryotic -cells: how are they to fit very large DNA into a small compartment? Although eukaryotic DNA is supercoiled, this isn’t enough to solve the packaging problem. Eukaryotic cells use special proteins (histones) to wind up DNA and fold it into nucleosomes, which are compact structures. DNA can be transcribed in this state. Further packaging of DNA into highly compact fibers makes genes inaccessible for transcription, leading to gene silencing. Gene silencing is an important way of regulating gene expression. Packaging of DNA in Eukaryotes. Nucleosomes are formed by DNA looping around a collection of proteins called histones. Genes that are actively undergoing transcription can be found in nucleosomes. In the case of inactive (silenced) genes, the DNA is further compacted into thick fibers of the DNA-histone complex. By Richard Wheeler (Chromatin Structures) CC BY-SA 3.0 The shape of the chromosomes changes throughout the cell cycle. For example, when a cell needs to divide, DNA is further compacted by the addition of scaffolding proteins that help divide copies of the chromosomes equally. The most compact shape of the chromosomes can be observed during cell division. The shape of the chromosomes changes throughout the cell cycle. For example, when a cell needs to divide, DNA is further compacted by the addition of scaffolding proteins that help divide copies of the chromosomes equally. The most compact shape of the chromosomes can be observed during cell division. By Richard Wheeler (Chromatin Structures) CC BY-SA 3.0 How DNA is Packaged   Restriction Enzymes: A useful Tool for Manipulating DNA The step of inserting our synthetic DNA into the plasmid use two very important enzymes, restriction enzymes and DNA ligase. Restriction endonucleases are enzymes that recognize specific DNA sequences, such as GAATTC, and cut both strands of the DNA within these sequences. Typically four or six bases are recognized. Restriction enzymes are isolated from a number of bacterial species and the name of the enzyme reflects the original species. For example, the restriction enzyme EcoR1 was isolated from Escherichia coli. The normal biological function of restriction endonucleases is to protect the bacterial species from viruses by digesting the viral DNA as it enters the cell. Of course, the bacteria shouldn’t digest their own DNA. Consequently, they have companion enzymes called DNA methylases, which add methyl groups to the bacterial DNA, protecting it from digestion. There are hundreds of different restriction enzymes, each of which recognizes and cleaves a different DNA sequence or “restriction site”. Examples of two such enzymes are shown below. A shorthand notation for the recognition site is given below each name. The “^” symbol indicates the site of cleavage. The DNA sequence that they recognize is shown on the left and the products of the digestion are shown on the right. The fragments that are produced after cleavage can contain single stranded overhangs (e.g. EcoR1) or have blunt ends, such as with PvuII. The DNA sequences that are recognized by restriction endonucleases have a unique property in that the sequence on the top strand is identical to the sequence on the bottom strand, i.e. in the case of EcoR1 the sequence of the top strand is 5’-GAATTC. Taking the complement of that sequence to generate the bottom strand gives: 5’ GAATTC. The other notable feature is that the cutting position is in the same location on both strands. Using EcoR1 as an example, the enzyme cuts between the G and the A. The symmetry in the recognition sequence and the cutting location is due to the fact that the active form of these enzymes contain two identical polypeptide chains. You can imagine that one chain recognizes and cleaves the top strand. The second chain, because it is identical to the first, recognizes the same sequence on the other strand and cleaves in the same location. Cartoon diagram of EcoR1. The two blue rectangles represent the two identical subunits of the enzyme. The red arrow marks the cleavage location. If the restriction enzyme does not cut at the center of its recognition sequence the cleavage products will contain short single-stranded segments of DNA. These are often called “sticky-ends” because they can stick to other DNA molecules that have complementary sticky ends. Enzymes that cut in the middle of their recognition sequences produce blunt end fragments. Below, the formation of sticky ends after EcoR1 cleavage is illustrated. Because cleavage does not occur in the middle of the recognition sequence, the products have short single strand segments (highlighted). These sticky ends can “stick” to complementary single-stranded DNA sequences using normal DNA basepairing (A-T, G-C). The presence of sticky ends on DNA fragments makes it easy to join DNA fragments. If two fragments are both cut with the same restriction enzyme, they will have complementary sticky ends. These will align and bind loosely to each other: hydrogen bonds will form between complementary bases. At this point, the two fragments are not firmly held together by covalent bonds; the sugar-phosphate backbone is still broken on both strands. DNA ligases can be used to rejoin DNA after it has been cut with the restriction enzyme. This reaction requires energy (usually ATP) and requires that the two pieces of DNA that are being joined are close to each other. Since the sticky ends hold the two ends close together it is easy for DNA ligase to join the fragments, reforming the phosphodiester bonds on both strands. Although most of the time DNA fragments are joined using sticky ends, it is possible to join fragments that are blunt ended. This is more difficult however because there are no hydrogen bonds to hold the DNA fragments together.   What Is an Expression Plasmid? After you have generated your synthetic gene, you must insert the gene into an expression plasmid so it can be placed inside a living bacterial cell and translated into the HuGH protein. We will look at that step in detail on the next page. For now, let’s assume that has been accomplished. Here we want to focus on the properties of the expression plasmid. An expression plasmid is a closed circular molecule of DNA that has several unique properties associated with its DNA sequences. There are three general types of sequences that are found on expression vectors: Sequences involved in maintaining the plasmid in the cell. First, the expression plasmid contains a section of DNA that is an origin of replication. This ensures that when it is placed into a bacterial host cell, it will be successfully replicated. The origin of replication on the plasmid is similar to the origin of replication that is found on the bacterial chromosome. The expression plasmid must also contain a section of DNA that encodes a protein that will confer antibiotic resistance on the bacterial cells that contain the plasmid. This provides a method to select the bacterial cells that contain the plasmid, because if they have the plasmid, they will be able to grow in the presence of an antibiotic while cells that do not have the plasmid will die. Sequences that allow the insertion of the synthetic DNA into the plasmid. These are short DNA sequences that are recognized by restriction endonucleases, in the case of this plasmid they are the EcoR1 and BamH1 sites. Restriction endonucleases cut the DNA at these sequences, allowing the insertion of the synthetic gene between the sites. The actual mechanism is discussed in the next section. Sequences involved in transcribing the DNA to mRNA. The expression plasmid must also contain a promoter that is recognized by RNA polymerase. This promoter is adjacent to the growth hormone gene and will enable the transcription of the growth hormone gene into mRNA. The expression plasmid must contain a DNA sequence that allows a repressor protein to bind. The repressor protein can then act as an on-off switch for mRNA production. An on/off switch is important because the production of growth hormone can interfere with cell division and the production of the growth hormone should be off until a sufficient number of cells are obtained. The most common repressor protein that is used is the lac repressor. The lac repressor binds to a specific DNA sequence called the lac operator. You may want to review the properties of the lac operon. The addition of an inducer molecule, such as lactose, will cause the repressor to fall off of the DNA, allowing RNA polymerase to produce mRNA. It is important that the operator sequence is placed between the promoter and the DNA that encodes the mRNA so that mRNA cannot be made unless an inducer is added. Sequences involved in translating the mRNA to Protein The expression plasmid must have a DNA sequence that will encode a ribosome binding site on the mRNA. This sequence, which will be found at the beginning of the mRNA, will allow the mRNA to bind to the bacterial ribosome, initiating the process of protein synthesis. This segment must be part of the mRNA and it has to occur just before the start codon to position the mRNA correctly on the ribosome. Summary of DNA sequences in the expression plasmid and their role in mRNA and protein production.   Biotechnology: Summary Through biotechnology, we can now transfer genes among different types of cells. This and related tools are used to solve many problems in medicine and agriculture. In this module, you learned about an example that illustrates many of the basic procedures that are used in modern biotechnology. You learned about the steps that can be used to produce a human protein (human growth hormone) in bacteria. A synthetic gene is chemically synthesized using the known amino acid sequence of the target protein (HuGH) to determine the required DNA sequence. In cases where the genetic code is redundant (more than one codon specifies a single amino acid), those codons preferred by bacteria are selected when designing the synthetic DNA. The synthetic DNA is inserted into an expression plasmid, using a combination of restriction endonucleases and DNA ligase. The expression plasmid contains DNA segments that are responsible for replication of the plasmid and a gene that confers antibiotic resistance to bacteria. The expression plasmid also contains the required signals for the initiation, regulation, and termination of mRNA from the inserted synthetic gene. The expression plasmid is transferred into bacteria. Antibiotic is added to the culture medium so that only those bacteria containing the plasmid can grow. The bacteria are cultured under conditions that favor rapid growth. The production of mRNA is initiated by the addition of lactose to the culture. Useful quantities of the final product - human growth hormone - can now be extracted from the medium. The process above can be used to produce human insulin or virtually any other protein in bacteria, simply by changing the DNA sequence of the synthetic gene. A similar process is used to produce proteins in yeast or mammalian cells for biomedical applications. The process above can be used to produce human insulin or virtually any other protein in bacteria, simply by changing the DNA sequence of the synthetic gene. A similar process is used to produce proteins in yeast or mammalian cells for biomedical applications. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Antibiotic resistance Codon optimization Expression plasmid DNA ligase Lac operator Lac repressor Origin of replication Restriction endonuclease Ribosome binding site Start codon Sticky end Stop codon Through biotechnology, we can now transfer genes among different types of cells. This and related tools are used to solve many problems in medicine and agriculture. In this module, you learned about an example that illustrates many of the basic procedures that are used in modern biotechnology. You learned about the steps that can be used to produce a human protein (human growth hormone) in bacteria. A synthetic gene is chemically synthesized using the known amino acid sequence of the target protein (HuGH) to determine the required DNA sequence. In cases where the genetic code is redundant (more than one codon specifies a single amino acid), those codons preferred by bacteria are selected when designing the synthetic DNA. The synthetic DNA is inserted into an expression plasmid, using a combination of restriction endonucleases and DNA ligase. The expression plasmid contains DNA segments that are responsible for replication of the plasmid and a gene that confers antibiotic resistance to bacteria. The expression plasmid also contains the required signals for the initiation, regulation, and termination of mRNA from the inserted synthetic gene. The expression plasmid is transferred into bacteria. Antibiotic is added to the culture medium so that only those bacteria containing the plasmid can grow. The bacteria are cultured under conditions that favor rapid growth. The production of mRNA is initiated by the addition of lactose to the culture. Useful quantities of the final product - human growth hormone - can now be extracted from the medium. The process above can be used to produce human insulin or virtually any other protein in bacteria, simply by changing the DNA sequence of the synthetic gene. A similar process is used to produce proteins in yeast or mammalian cells for biomedical applications. The process above can be used to produce human insulin or virtually any other protein in bacteria, simply by changing the DNA sequence of the synthetic gene. A similar process is used to produce proteins in yeast or mammalian cells for biomedical applications. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Antibiotic resistance Codon optimization Expression plasmid DNA ligase Lac operator Lac repressor Origin of replication Restriction endonuclease Ribosome binding site Start codon Sticky end Stop codon   Generating a Synthetic Gene The first step in producing HuGH is to generate a synthetic gene whose nucleotide sequence codes for the amino acid sequence of the growth hormone. This sequence would contain the start codon, codons representing each amino acid in the growth hormone, and a stop codon. To do this, the known amino acid sequence for human growth hormone must be “back-translated” to a nucleic acid sequence. Since most amino acids can be coded for by more than one mRNA codon, this process is ambiguous. Because the genetic code is universal it would be possible to use the human codons to encode the sequence of amino acids. However, the host organism (which is bacteria in this example) often prefer certain codons over others, so the preferred codons must be used to optimize protein expression. We will synthesize our HuGH gene using a chemical method called solid-phase synthesis. In this method, the first base of our DNA sequence is attached to a small glass bead. The next base is then added to the first, and so on, until the sequence is completed at which point the DNA is released from the glass bead. Any desired DNA sequence can be generated by this method. Current technology limits this approach to about 200 bases. If our gene is longer, we have to make it in segments and then join the individual segments together. Chemical synthesis of DNA. The first base (A) is attached to a glass bead (blue sphere). The next base (G) is added, followed by the third base (T). This process is repeated until the entire DNA strand is completed. The linkage to the glass bead is then broken, and the completed DNA molecule is released. In contrast to the direction of synthesis by DNA polymerases (5’->3’), the chemical synthesis of DNA is in the reverse direction, beginning at the 3’ end. The above diagram shows the synthesis of 5’-TGA-3’. In addition to the codons, it is necessary to add additional sequences to the end of the gene to facilitate the insertion of our synthetic gene into the expression plasmid. These sequences are called restriction sites. Consequently the complete gene is: 