9. [u'groups', u'grouping', u'group']
   The Functional Groups   The Functional Groups Quiz   Functional Groups After delving into the functional grouping of molecules, students will be able to identify different functional groups, and characterize each, by category (i.e. polar, non polar, neutral, or charged). Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism The functional groups fall into three broad categories: non-polar, polar neutral, and polar charged. The molecules in each group all have common properties. Functional Group Tutorial Functional Groups Activity In the activity below, the radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property and highlight the functional groups that exhibit the selected property. The [?] buttons display the definition of each of the properties. The FUNCTIONAL GROUPS column shows the names and chemical structure of important functional groups in biology. Select any one of these functional groups to see it's properties and to view examples of this group. The pull-down menu allows you to select different chemicals that contain the selected functional group. The functional groups are highlighted in both the 2D structure and the 3D Jmol. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. The following is a video in which Dr. Bill Brown explains the various functional groups. If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, use the link below. Practice This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups. My Questions Using the My Response link below, record two questions you have about this lesson. Due by by 9 a.m. of the day the lesson will be discussed. These questions will be used to shape the classroom discussion. Check Your Understanding Functional Groups Activity In the activity below, the radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property and highlight the functional groups that exhibit the selected property. The [?] buttons display the definition of each of the properties. The FUNCTIONAL GROUPS column shows the names and chemical structure of important functional groups in biology. Select any one of these functional groups to see it's properties and to view examples of this group. The pull-down menu allows you to select different chemicals that contain the selected functional group. The functional groups are highlighted in both the 2D structure and the 3D Jmol. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. The following is a video in which Dr. Bill Brown explains the various functional groups. If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, use the link below. This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups. Using the My Response link below, record two questions you have about this lesson. Due by by 9 a.m. of the day the lesson will be discussed. These questions will be used to shape the classroom discussion.   Functional Groups Be able to identify different functional groups, and characterize each, by category (i.e. polar, non polar, neutral, charged). Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism The functional groups fall into three broad categories: non-polar, polar neutral, and polar charged. The molecules in each group all have common properties. Functional Group Tutorial Functional Groups Activity In the activity below, the radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property and highlight the functional groups that exhibit the selected property. The [?] buttons display the definition of each of the properties. The FUNCTIONAL GROUPS column shows the names and chemical structure of important functional groups in biology. Select any one of these functional groups to see it's properties and to view examples of this group. The pull-down menu allows you to select different chemicals that contain the selected functional group. The functional groups are highlighted in both the 2D structure and the 3D Jmol. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, use the link below. Practice This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups. Check Your Understanding Functional Groups Activity In the activity below, the radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property and highlight the functional groups that exhibit the selected property. The [?] buttons display the definition of each of the properties. The FUNCTIONAL GROUPS column shows the names and chemical structure of important functional groups in biology. Select any one of these functional groups to see it's properties and to view examples of this group. The pull-down menu allows you to select different chemicals that contain the selected functional group. The functional groups are highlighted in both the 2D structure and the 3D Jmol. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, use the link below. This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups.   Functional Groups Be able to identify different functional groups, and characterize each, by category (i.e. polar, non polar, neutral, charged). Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism The functional groups fall into three broad categories: non-polar, polar neutral, and polar charged. The molecules in each group all have common properties. Functional Group Tutorial The Learn By Doing link below will open the Functional Groups Glossary. We will use this Glossary extensively. It contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Click on "Learn By Doing," below, to enter the tutorial. The functional groups are listed. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally. If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, use the link below. Practice This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups. My Questions Using the My Response button below, record two questions you have about this lesson. Due by by 9 a.m. of the day the lesson will be discussed. These questions will be used to shape the classroom discussion. Practice Quiz Try this set of questions to test your knowledge. The Learn By Doing link below will open the Functional Groups Glossary. We will use this Glossary extensively. It contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Click on "Learn By Doing," below, to enter the tutorial. The functional groups are listed. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally. If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, use the link below. This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups. Using the My Response button below, record two questions you have about this lesson. Due by by 9 a.m. of the day the lesson will be discussed. These questions will be used to shape the classroom discussion. Try this set of questions to test your knowledge.   Introduction to Electrolytes and Equilibrium In the previous module you learned about a limited set of functional groups on molecules found in biological systems and some of their properties. Specifically you learned there were only three types of functional groups: non-polar, polar neutral, and polar charged. Within these types there are eight that are particularly relevant to biological systems out of the hundreds of known organic functional groups. Of the three types, the polar charged groups, amino, carboxyl, and phosphate, undergo the greatest change depending on the environment in which they are found. They are weak electrolytes and behave as bases (amino groups) or acids (carboxyl and phosphate groups) and as such have the potential to exist as ions. In this module you will explore the properties of weak acids and bases including their dissociation equilibrium and their ability to act as pH buffers. The cell exploits these properties to control intracellular pH, the ionic state of molecules and the activity level of molecules. Thus we need to have a thorough understanding of the chemical behavior of acids and bases in solution. In the final module of this unit you will see these concepts in action in protein ligand binding.   The Functional Groups   Functional Groups Use this as a reference for the important functional groups and representative molecules for each group. You can select individual groups or select by property. Inside each functional group there are multiple examples of the group in actual molecules. The molecules are represented as text and in 3-D.   The Functional Groups Review   Application Spotlight: Funtional Groups Functional groups are parts of organic molecules that have specific properties or functions. Because organic molecules can contain more than one type of functional group, a particular molecule may have multiple properties. Identifying functional groups in molecules is an important skill because once you identify a molecule’s functional groups, you can predict many aspects of its biological behavior. Functional groups can be divided into three groups based on their physical properties. There are the non-polar groups, the polar groups, and the charged groups. Non-Polar Functional Groups Functional groups in this category are also referred to as hydrophobic (water hating) groups. They only contain carbon and hydrogen, and lack electronegative atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Non-polar functional groups are often found on amino acid side chains of proteins and they also make up a major part of most lipid molecules. The hydrophobic nature of non-polar functional groups often affects the shape of molecules containing these groups. For example, proteins will fold into unique shapes just to prevent non-polar groups from being in contact with water. Some lipids bury the non-polar section of the molecule by the forming lipid bilayers, which shape the boundary of all cells The key non-polar functional groups are: Methyl Methyl - CH3, found in the amino acid alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine. Phenyl Phenyl - (CH)6, found in the amino acid phenylalanine. Also, long chain alkanes - (CH2)n, found in lipids are among the non-polar functional groups. Polar Functional Groups Polar functional groups contain electronegative atoms like nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), and sulfur (S). The presence of electronegative atoms in a functional group results in an unequal distribution of charges on the atoms, causing the bonds to become polar. Because polar bonds interact favorably with water, compounds with polar functional groups also interact favorably with water, making them hydrophilic, or water-loving. Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. In addition to interacting favorably with water, the polar atoms can also participate in chemical reactions and polar functional groups are usually responsible for the catalytic properties of enzymes. The key polar functional groups are: Alcohols Alcohols (-OH) found on amino acids and carbohydrates. Thiols Thiols (-SH) found on proteins. Carbonyls Carbonyls (=O) found on carbohydrates. Esters Esters (-C=O-O) found in lipids. Amides Amides (-C=O-NH2) found on some amino acids. Amino acids are linked together in proteins by amide linkages (-C=O-NH-C). Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Lipids and soaps are examples of amphipathic molecules. Charged Functional Groups Charged functional groups are acids, meaning that they form ions by the release of hydrogen ions (H+), which are also called protons. Depending on the specific functional group, these groups of molecules lose a hydrogen ion (or deprotonate) and become either charged or neutral as a result. Charged functional groups play key roles in biological systems. For example, many proteins bind to DNA (or RNA) by utilizing the electrostatic interaction between positive charges on the protein and negative charges on the DNA or RNA. Note that when these groups are in their uncharged state they can be considered to be polar functional groups. The key charged functional groups are: Carboxyl:Charged at neutral pH, with a charge of -1. At low pH values, this group is protonated and becomes neutral. Amino:Also charged at neutral pH, with a charge of +1. At high pH values, this group is deprotonated and becomes neutral. Phosphate:Typically has two negative charges at neutral pH. A special case of a phosphate group is a phosphate diester, which links together nucleotides in DNA and RNA. The phosphate diester is always negatively charged at neutral pH. Display a chemical drawing for each of the above functional groups. Functional Group Tutorial The Learn By Doing link below will open the Functional Groups Glossary. We will use this Glossary extensively. It contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Click on "Learn By Doing," below, to enter the tutorial. The functional groups are listed. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally. Replace Functional Groups with revised version If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, click here. Functional groups in this category are also referred to as hydrophobic (water hating) groups. They only contain carbon and hydrogen, and lack electronegative atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Non-polar functional groups are often found on amino acid side chains of proteins and they also make up a major part of most lipid molecules. The hydrophobic nature of non-polar functional groups often affects the shape of molecules containing these groups. For example, proteins will fold into unique shapes just to prevent non-polar groups from being in contact with water. Some lipids bury the non-polar section of the molecule by the forming lipid bilayers, which shape the boundary of all cells The key non-polar functional groups are: Methyl Methyl - CH3, found in the amino acid alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine. Phenyl Phenyl - (CH)6, found in the amino acid phenylalanine. Also, long chain alkanes - (CH2)n, found in lipids are among the non-polar functional groups. Polar functional groups contain electronegative atoms like nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), and sulfur (S). The presence of electronegative atoms in a functional group results in an unequal distribution of charges on the atoms, causing the bonds to become polar. Because polar bonds interact favorably with water, compounds with polar functional groups also interact favorably with water, making them hydrophilic, or water-loving. Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. In addition to interacting favorably with water, the polar atoms can also participate in chemical reactions and polar functional groups are usually responsible for the catalytic properties of enzymes. The key polar functional groups are: Alcohols Alcohols (-OH) found on amino acids and carbohydrates. Thiols Thiols (-SH) found on proteins. Carbonyls Carbonyls (=O) found on carbohydrates. Esters Esters (-C=O-O) found in lipids. Amides Amides (-C=O-NH2) found on some amino acids. Amino acids are linked together in proteins by amide linkages (-C=O-NH-C). Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Lipids and soaps are examples of amphipathic molecules. Charged functional groups are acids, meaning that they form ions by the release of hydrogen ions (H+), which are also called protons. Depending on the specific functional group, these groups of molecules lose a hydrogen ion (or deprotonate) and become either charged or neutral as a result. Charged functional groups play key roles in biological systems. For example, many proteins bind to DNA (or RNA) by utilizing the electrostatic interaction between positive charges on the protein and negative charges on the DNA or RNA. Note that when these groups are in their uncharged state they can be considered to be polar functional groups. The key charged functional groups are: Carboxyl:Charged at neutral pH, with a charge of -1. At low pH values, this group is protonated and becomes neutral. Amino:Also charged at neutral pH, with a charge of +1. At high pH values, this group is deprotonated and becomes neutral. Phosphate:Typically has two negative charges at neutral pH. A special case of a phosphate group is a phosphate diester, which links together nucleotides in DNA and RNA. The phosphate diester is always negatively charged at neutral pH. The Learn By Doing link below will open the Functional Groups Glossary. We will use this Glossary extensively. It contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Click on "Learn By Doing," below, to enter the tutorial. The functional groups are listed. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally. Replace Functional Groups with revised version If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, click here.   Functional Groups Functional groups are parts of organic molecules that have specific properties and functions. Organic molecules may contain more than one type of functional group, and therefore, a particular molecule may have multiple properties. Biological systems use only a small subset of the total number of elements (approximately 10 %) found in the periodic table. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. The physical properties of functional groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at various physiological pH levels and temperatures. Identifying functional groups in molecules is an important skill, because once you identify a molecule’s functional groups, you can predict its chemical properties and many aspects of its biological behavior. Here you will learn about the various functional groups and their properties; that is, their polarity, electrical charge, and solubility properties. Later in this unit, you will learn more about the monomer, amino acids, the building blocks of a very important biomacromolecule, protein. Functional groups can be categorized into three groups: nonpolar groups, polar groups, and charged groups. The properties of each group willl be discussed next. Nonpolar Functional Groups Functional groups in this category are also referred to as hydrophobic (water-hating) groups. They only contain carbon and hydrogen, and lack electronegative atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Molecules containing these functional groups tend to be insoluble; that is, incapable of dissolving in water or only slightly soluable with great difficulty. Nonpolar functional groups are often found on amino acid side chains of proteins, and they also make up a major part of most lipid molecules. The hydrophobic nature of nonpolar functional groups often affects the shape of molecules containing these groups. For example, proteins will fold so that nonpolar groups are clustered together and are not in contact with water. Some lipids bury the nonpolar section of the molecule by forming lipid bilayers, which shape the boundaries of all cells. The key nonpolar functional groups are: Also, long chain alkanes, (CH2)n, found in lipids, are among the nonpolar functional groups. Polar Functional Groups Polar functional groups contain electronegative atoms like nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), and sulfur (S). The presence of electronegative atoms in a functional group results in an unequal distribution of electrical charges on the atoms, causing the bonds to become polar. Because polar bonds interact favorably with water, compounds with polar functional groups also interact favorably with water, making them hydrophilic, or water-loving. Biomacromolecules containing these functional groups dissolve in water. In addition to interacting favorably with water, the polar atoms can also participate in chemical reactions and polar functional groups are usually responsible for the catalytic properties of enzymes. The key polar functional groups are: Some compounds contain both nonpolar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Phospholipids and soaps are examples of amphipathic molecules. Charged Functional Groups Charged functional groups are acids, meaning that they form ions by the release of hydrogen ions (H+), which are also called protons. Depending on the specific functional group, these groups of molecules lose a hydrogen ion (or deprotonate) and become either charged or neutral as a result. Charged functional groups play key roles in biological systems. For example, amino acids, the building blocks of proteins, consists of an amino group bonded to a carboxylic acid group. Many proteins bind to DNA (or RNA) by utilizing the electrostatic interaction between positive charges on the protein and negative charges on the DNA or RNA. Note that when these groups are in their uncharged state, they can be considered to be polar functional groups. The key charged functional groups are: A special case of the phosphate group is a phosphate diester, which links together nucleotides in DNA and RNA. The phosphate diester is always negatively charged at neutral pH. Functional Group Tutorial Functional Groups Activity In the tutorial below, the functional groups are organized based on properties. The tutorial is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Properties: The radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property. The functional groups that exhibit the selected property will then be highlighted. The [?] buttons enable you to display the definition of each of the properties; click once to display the definition and click again to return to the functional groups panel. The functional groups column shows the names and chemical structures of important functional groups in biology. Select any one of these functional groups to see its properties and to view examples of products or substances in this group. The pull-down menu in the third column, "choose example," allows you to select different chemicals that contain the selected functional group. The functional groups are highlighted in both the 2D structure and the 3D Jmol. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. If you need a reminder of chemical structures or of how to view molecules in 3D, review Viewing Chemical Structures in the Introduction to Chemistry unit. Check Yourself This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups. Functional groups in this category are also referred to as hydrophobic (water-hating) groups. They only contain carbon and hydrogen, and lack electronegative atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Molecules containing these functional groups tend to be insoluble; that is, incapable of dissolving in water or only slightly soluable with great difficulty. Nonpolar functional groups are often found on amino acid side chains of proteins, and they also make up a major part of most lipid molecules. The hydrophobic nature of nonpolar functional groups often affects the shape of molecules containing these groups. For example, proteins will fold so that nonpolar groups are clustered together and are not in contact with water. Some lipids bury the nonpolar section of the molecule by forming lipid bilayers, which shape the boundaries of all cells. The key nonpolar functional groups are: Also, long chain alkanes, (CH2)n, found in lipids, are among the nonpolar functional groups. Polar functional groups contain electronegative atoms like nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), and sulfur (S). The presence of electronegative atoms in a functional group results in an unequal distribution of electrical charges on the atoms, causing the bonds to become polar. Because polar bonds interact favorably with water, compounds with polar functional groups also interact favorably with water, making them hydrophilic, or water-loving. Biomacromolecules containing these functional groups dissolve in water. In addition to interacting favorably with water, the polar atoms can also participate in chemical reactions and polar functional groups are usually responsible for the catalytic properties of enzymes. The key polar functional groups are: Some compounds contain both nonpolar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Phospholipids and soaps are examples of amphipathic molecules. Charged functional groups are acids, meaning that they form ions by the release of hydrogen ions (H+), which are also called protons. Depending on the specific functional group, these groups of molecules lose a hydrogen ion (or deprotonate) and become either charged or neutral as a result. Charged functional groups play key roles in biological systems. For example, amino acids, the building blocks of proteins, consists of an amino group bonded to a carboxylic acid group. Many proteins bind to DNA (or RNA) by utilizing the electrostatic interaction between positive charges on the protein and negative charges on the DNA or RNA. Note that when these groups are in their uncharged state, they can be considered to be polar functional groups. The key charged functional groups are: A special case of the phosphate group is a phosphate diester, which links together nucleotides in DNA and RNA. The phosphate diester is always negatively charged at neutral pH. Functional Groups Activity In the tutorial below, the functional groups are organized based on properties. The tutorial is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Properties: The radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property. The functional groups that exhibit the selected property will then be highlighted. The [?] buttons enable you to display the definition of each of the properties; click once to display the definition and click again to return to the functional groups panel. The functional groups column shows the names and chemical structures of important functional groups in biology. Select any one of these functional groups to see its properties and to view examples of products or substances in this group. The pull-down menu in the third column, "choose example," allows you to select different chemicals that contain the selected functional group. The functional groups are highlighted in both the 2D structure and the 3D Jmol. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures. If you need a reminder of chemical structures or of how to view molecules in 3D, review Viewing Chemical Structures in the Introduction to Chemistry unit. This exercise uses the Functional Group Glossary to let you test your knowledge of the properties of the functional groups.   Application Spotlight: Funtional Groups Functional groups are parts of organic molecules that have specific properties or functions. Because organic molecules can contain more than one type of functional group, a particular molecule may have multiple properties. Identifying functional groups in molecules is an important skill because once you identify a molecule’s functional groups, you can predict many aspects of its biological behavior. Functional groups can be divided into three groups based on their physical properties. There are the non-polar groups, the polar groups, and the charged groups. Non-Polar Functional Groups Functional groups in this category are also referred to as hydrophobic (water hating) groups. They only contain carbon and hydrogen, and lack electronegative atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Non-polar functional groups are often found on amino acid side chains of proteins and they also make up a major part of most lipid molecules. The hydrophobic nature of non-polar functional groups often affects the shape of molecules containing these groups. For example, proteins will fold into unique shapes just to prevent non-polar groups from being in contact with water. Some lipids bury the non-polar section of the molecule by the forming lipid bilayers, which shape the boundary of all cells The key non-polar functional groups are: Also, long chain alkanes - (CH2)n, found in lipids are among the non-polar functional groups. Polar Functional Groups Polar functional groups contain electronegative atoms like nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), and sulfur (S). The presence of electronegative atoms in a functional group results in an unequal distribution of charges on the atoms, causing the bonds to become polar. Because polar bonds interact favorably with water, compounds with polar functional groups also interact favorably with water, making them hydrophilic, or water-loving. Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. In addition to interacting favorably with water, the polar atoms can also participate in chemical reactions and polar functional groups are usually responsible for the catalytic properties of enzymes. The key polar functional groups are: Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Lipids and soaps are examples of amphipathic molecules. Charged Functional Groups Charged functional groups are acids, meaning that they form ions by the release of hydrogen ions (H+), which are also called protons. Depending on the specific functional group, these groups of molecules lose a hydrogen ion (or deprotonate) and become either charged or neutral as a result. Charged functional groups play key roles in biological systems. For example, many proteins bind to DNA (or RNA) by utilizing the electrostatic interaction between positive charges on the protein and negative charges on the DNA or RNA. Note that when these groups are in their uncharged state they can be considered to be polar functional groups. The key charged functional groups are: A special case of the phosphate group is a phosphate diester, which links together nucleotides in DNA and RNA. The phosphate diester is always negatively charged at neutral pH. Functional Group Tutorial The link below will open the Functional Groups Glossary. We will use this glossary extensively. It contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Click on "Learn By Doing" below, to enter the tutorial. The functional groups are listed in the center column. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally. Replace Functional Groups with revised version New Functional Groups LBD If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, click here. Functional groups in this category are also referred to as hydrophobic (water hating) groups. They only contain carbon and hydrogen, and lack electronegative atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Non-polar functional groups are often found on amino acid side chains of proteins and they also make up a major part of most lipid molecules. The hydrophobic nature of non-polar functional groups often affects the shape of molecules containing these groups. For example, proteins will fold into unique shapes just to prevent non-polar groups from being in contact with water. Some lipids bury the non-polar section of the molecule by the forming lipid bilayers, which shape the boundary of all cells The key non-polar functional groups are: Also, long chain alkanes - (CH2)n, found in lipids are among the non-polar functional groups. Polar functional groups contain electronegative atoms like nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), and sulfur (S). The presence of electronegative atoms in a functional group results in an unequal distribution of charges on the atoms, causing the bonds to become polar. Because polar bonds interact favorably with water, compounds with polar functional groups also interact favorably with water, making them hydrophilic, or water-loving. Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. In addition to interacting favorably with water, the polar atoms can also participate in chemical reactions and polar functional groups are usually responsible for the catalytic properties of enzymes. The key polar functional groups are: Some compounds contain both non-polar and polar functional groups; molecules of this type are referred to as amphipathic molecules. Lipids and soaps are examples of amphipathic molecules. Charged functional groups are acids, meaning that they form ions by the release of hydrogen ions (H+), which are also called protons. Depending on the specific functional group, these groups of molecules lose a hydrogen ion (or deprotonate) and become either charged or neutral as a result. Charged functional groups play key roles in biological systems. For example, many proteins bind to DNA (or RNA) by utilizing the electrostatic interaction between positive charges on the protein and negative charges on the DNA or RNA. Note that when these groups are in their uncharged state they can be considered to be polar functional groups. The key charged functional groups are: A special case of the phosphate group is a phosphate diester, which links together nucleotides in DNA and RNA. The phosphate diester is always negatively charged at neutral pH. The link below will open the Functional Groups Glossary. We will use this glossary extensively. It contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. Click on "Learn By Doing" below, to enter the tutorial. The functional groups are listed in the center column. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally. Replace Functional Groups with revised version New Functional Groups LBD If you need a reminder of chemical structures or how to view molecules in 3-D, click here.   The Functional Groups The table below contains the functional groups organized based on properties and is rich with information and examples about each of the groups. The functional groups are listed. You can click on each group to see the chemical properties, as well as several examples of molecules, associated with that group. The 3-D structure viewer is interactive; click and drag the structure to rotate it. You can also use radio buttons to select groups of molecules to explore how the groups are related functionally.   Functional Group Tutorial Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism Functional Groups Activity In the activity below, the radio buttons on the extreme left let you select a property and hilight the functional groups that exhibit the selected property. The [?] buttons display the definition of each of the properties. The FUNCTIONAL GROUPS column shows the names and chemical structure of important functional groups in biology. Select any one of these functional groups to see it's properties and to view examples of this group. The pull-down menu allows you to select different chemicals that contain the selected functional group. The functional groups are hilighted in both the 2D structure and the 3D Jmol. Recognizing these functional groups where they appear in larger structures and knowing what properties they exhibit will provide you with insight into their function within these larger structures.   Functional Groups Use this as a reference for the important functional groups and representative molecules for each group. You can select individual groups or select by property. Inside each functional group there are multiple examples of the group in actual molecules. The molecules are represented as text and in 3-D.   The Functional Groups 