2. [u'species', u'population', u'populations']
   Evolution As we just now considered, reproduction passes characteristics from parents to offspring and maintains the continuity of life. You can see this in a family photograph: offspring resemble parents and siblings resemble each other. Biologists look at the entire range of life on the planet and see the same pattern. evolution is about how and why life changes over time. It happens at levels greater than the individual: a single bird cannot evolve, but a population of birds can evolve. It also occurs over generations of time, not within a single lifetime. A formal definition might be that evolution is a theory of how and why life changes in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time. Evolution is really just a long-term study of inheritance, shifting the focus from families to populations or even species. Darwin’s Bold Idea: Relatedness of All Species by Shared Ancestry Sketching in his notebook in 1837, Charles Darwin created the first diagram of a phylogenetic tree. It shows several life forms related to each other by ancestry. The neighboring “twigs” in the lettered groups are similar species. Eventually Darwin would propose that ALL life forms find a place on one tree, and that it began with one or just a few very simple life forms long ago. According to evolutionary thinking, life forms are similar because of their shared ancestry. All cells have DNA as the molecule of inheritance and share many other detailed features. In the world today, organisms and cells always come from parents, and this is where they get their genetic information. Trace this process back in time, and it is reasonable to suppose that all life forms inherited DNA and many other features from a long-ago common ancestor. The unity of life is very striking when we examine molecules, which can be almost identical in species as different as bacteria and whales. It is also evident when we compare skeletons, kidneys, or hearts among animals. Natural Selection and Life’s Success The second major idea of evolution is that of selection. Natural selection helps explain how groups of organisms become well-suited, or adapted, to their surroundings. Individuals are always a bit different from their parents and from each other, partly because of changes to their genes. These differences may be helpful or harmful to the individuals that inherit them. In nature, individuals often have very low odds of surviving to reproduce. Individuals with slightly harmful or even average characteristics are unlikely to make it, and those with traits that fit in very well with the local habitat will have the greatest chance to survive and reproduce. This sorting process goes on generation after generation. Each time only a tiny fraction of those born are well-suited and lucky enough to pass their genes along; the others die leaving no descendants. As generations of time pass, inherited features that help organisms produce offspring become more common within a population. Harmful features that reduce reproduction become less common. Many experiments have demonstrated the effects of natural selection on populations in the laboratory and in nature. Dandelions Illustrate Features of Natural Selection This photo shows a crowd of dandelions, all striving to reproduce. Each plant may produce hundreds of seeds but only a few of them are likely to grow up to produce seeds of their own. Each generation there is a great sorting process, with most offspring (in this case, seeds and seedlings) dying young. Only a few survive to reproduce themselves. These survivors are probably quite well-suited to local conditions, and they will produce offspring with similar traits. Evolution: Public Controversy, Scientific Consensus Evolution is a controversial topic among the general public in the United States and some other countries. Students or teachers may challenge evolution or shy away from it in the classroom. Why? Here are a few of the conflicts that can arise: Some religious traditions, interpreted literally, conflict with evolution’s account of the past. Evolution suggests that humans are quite similar to other animals and that we are linked to all other life forms by ancestry. The process of evolution involves genetic changes (mutations) that occur at random. This may conflict with a view that life has an order and purpose determined by a higher power. These are deep issues that can’t be resolved simply. However, they do not imply any scientific disagreement about evolution. Some people may claim that evolution is somehow in dispute among scientists; they may argue that evolution is “just” a theory. Please recall that the scientific definition of the word “theory” is vastly different from its usage in popular culture. As a scientific theory , evolution holds a great deal of weight. It has been supported over and over again through many different kinds of observations and experiments. It helps explain a wide range of phenomena and suggests new ideas that can be applied to solve practical problems. The theory continues to be refined as new evidence comes in, but the major outlines of evolution seem likely to endure. In a science classroom we should focus on the direct evidence for evolution that we can observe in fossils and in organisms that are alive today. In fact, American public school teachers are legally required to teach about evolution from a scientific perspective and to refrain from teaching a particular religious account as if it were science. Does that mean science is at war with religion? No. Evolutionary biologists are thoughtful individuals and have different ways they deal with the “big questions” of life and meaning. Some are religious, some are not. But they are unified in their appreciation for the power of evolutionary theory to explain and predict life’s observable and verifiable features. As we just now considered, reproduction passes characteristics from parents to offspring and maintains the continuity of life. You can see this in a family photograph: offspring resemble parents and siblings resemble each other. Biologists look at the entire range of life on the planet and see the same pattern. evolution is about how and why life changes over time. It happens at levels greater than the individual: a single bird cannot evolve, but a population of birds can evolve. It also occurs over generations of time, not within a single lifetime. A formal definition might be that evolution is a theory of how and why life changes in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time. Evolution is really just a long-term study of inheritance, shifting the focus from families to populations or even species. Darwin’s Bold Idea: Relatedness of All Species by Shared Ancestry Sketching in his notebook in 1837, Charles Darwin created the first diagram of a phylogenetic tree. It shows several life forms related to each other by ancestry. The neighboring “twigs” in the lettered groups are similar species. Eventually Darwin would propose that ALL life forms find a place on one tree, and that it began with one or just a few very simple life forms long ago. According to evolutionary thinking, life forms are similar because of their shared ancestry. All cells have DNA as the molecule of inheritance and share many other detailed features. In the world today, organisms and cells always come from parents, and this is where they get their genetic information. Trace this process back in time, and it is reasonable to suppose that all life forms inherited DNA and many other features from a long-ago common ancestor. The unity of life is very striking when we examine molecules, which can be almost identical in species as different as bacteria and whales. It is also evident when we compare skeletons, kidneys, or hearts among animals. Natural Selection and Life’s Success The second major idea of evolution is that of selection. Natural selection helps explain how groups of organisms become well-suited, or adapted, to their surroundings. Individuals are always a bit different from their parents and from each other, partly because of changes to their genes. These differences may be helpful or harmful to the individuals that inherit them. In nature, individuals often have very low odds of surviving to reproduce. Individuals with slightly harmful or even average characteristics are unlikely to make it, and those with traits that fit in very well with the local habitat will have the greatest chance to survive and reproduce. This sorting process goes on generation after generation. Each time only a tiny fraction of those born are well-suited and lucky enough to pass their genes along; the others die leaving no descendants. As generations of time pass, inherited features that help organisms produce offspring become more common within a population. Harmful features that reduce reproduction become less common. Many experiments have demonstrated the effects of natural selection on populations in the laboratory and in nature. Dandelions Illustrate Features of Natural Selection This photo shows a crowd of dandelions, all striving to reproduce. Each plant may produce hundreds of seeds but only a few of them are likely to grow up to produce seeds of their own. Each generation there is a great sorting process, with most offspring (in this case, seeds and seedlings) dying young. Only a few survive to reproduce themselves. These survivors are probably quite well-suited to local conditions, and they will produce offspring with similar traits. Evolution: Public Controversy, Scientific Consensus Evolution is a controversial topic among the general public in the United States and some other countries. Students or teachers may challenge evolution or shy away from it in the classroom. Why? Here are a few of the conflicts that can arise: Some religious traditions, interpreted literally, conflict with evolution’s account of the past. Evolution suggests that humans are quite similar to other animals and that we are linked to all other life forms by ancestry. The process of evolution involves genetic changes (mutations) that occur at random. This may conflict with a view that life has an order and purpose determined by a higher power. These are deep issues that can’t be resolved simply. However, they do not imply any scientific disagreement about evolution. Some people may claim that evolution is somehow in dispute among scientists; they may argue that evolution is “just” a theory. Please recall that the scientific definition of the word “theory” is vastly different from its usage in popular culture. As a scientific theory , evolution holds a great deal of weight. It has been supported over and over again through many different kinds of observations and experiments. It helps explain a wide range of phenomena and suggests new ideas that can be applied to solve practical problems. The theory continues to be refined as new evidence comes in, but the major outlines of evolution seem likely to endure. In a science classroom we should focus on the direct evidence for evolution that we can observe in fossils and in organisms that are alive today. In fact, American public school teachers are legally required to teach about evolution from a scientific perspective and to refrain from teaching a particular religious account as if it were science. Does that mean science is at war with religion? No. Evolutionary biologists are thoughtful individuals and have different ways they deal with the “big questions” of life and meaning. Some are religious, some are not. But they are unified in their appreciation for the power of evolutionary theory to explain and predict life’s observable and verifiable features. The second major idea of evolution is that of selection. Natural selection helps explain how groups of organisms become well-suited, or adapted, to their surroundings. Individuals are always a bit different from their parents and from each other, partly because of changes to their genes. These differences may be helpful or harmful to the individuals that inherit them. In nature, individuals often have very low odds of surviving to reproduce. Individuals with slightly harmful or even average characteristics are unlikely to make it, and those with traits that fit in very well with the local habitat will have the greatest chance to survive and reproduce. This sorting process goes on generation after generation. Each time only a tiny fraction of those born are well-suited and lucky enough to pass their genes along; the others die leaving no descendants. As generations of time pass, inherited features that help organisms produce offspring become more common within a population. Harmful features that reduce reproduction become less common. Many experiments have demonstrated the effects of natural selection on populations in the laboratory and in nature. Dandelions Illustrate Features of Natural Selection This photo shows a crowd of dandelions, all striving to reproduce. Each plant may produce hundreds of seeds but only a few of them are likely to grow up to produce seeds of their own. Each generation there is a great sorting process, with most offspring (in this case, seeds and seedlings) dying young. Only a few survive to reproduce themselves. These survivors are probably quite well-suited to local conditions, and they will produce offspring with similar traits. Evolution is a controversial topic among the general public in the United States and some other countries. Students or teachers may challenge evolution or shy away from it in the classroom. Why? Here are a few of the conflicts that can arise: Some religious traditions, interpreted literally, conflict with evolution’s account of the past. Evolution suggests that humans are quite similar to other animals and that we are linked to all other life forms by ancestry. The process of evolution involves genetic changes (mutations) that occur at random. This may conflict with a view that life has an order and purpose determined by a higher power. These are deep issues that can’t be resolved simply. However, they do not imply any scientific disagreement about evolution. Some people may claim that evolution is somehow in dispute among scientists; they may argue that evolution is “just” a theory. Please recall that the scientific definition of the word “theory” is vastly different from its usage in popular culture. As a scientific theory , evolution holds a great deal of weight. It has been supported over and over again through many different kinds of observations and experiments. It helps explain a wide range of phenomena and suggests new ideas that can be applied to solve practical problems. The theory continues to be refined as new evidence comes in, but the major outlines of evolution seem likely to endure. In a science classroom we should focus on the direct evidence for evolution that we can observe in fossils and in organisms that are alive today. In fact, American public school teachers are legally required to teach about evolution from a scientific perspective and to refrain from teaching a particular religious account as if it were science. Does that mean science is at war with religion? No. Evolutionary biologists are thoughtful individuals and have different ways they deal with the “big questions” of life and meaning. Some are religious, some are not. But they are unified in their appreciation for the power of evolutionary theory to explain and predict life’s observable and verifiable features.   Evolution Evolution is a scientific theory that explains how and why life changes over time. Evolution provides the explanation for why all living organisms share profound similarities, and yet, the life forms on our planet are so incredibly diverse. The two fundamental tenets of evolution are shared ancestry and natural selection. Shared Ancestry As you learned previously in this module, reproduction results in the passing of characteristics from parents to offspring and maintains the continuity of life. You can see this in a family photograph: offspring resemble their parents and siblings resemble each other. Biologists look at all life on the planet and see the same patterns. According to evolutionary thinking, life forms are similar because of their shared ancestry. All cells have DNA as the molecule of inheritance and they also share many other detailed features. Organisms and cells always come from parents, and this is where they get their genetic information. Trace this process back in time, and it is reasonable to suppose that all life forms inherited DNA and many other features from a long-ago common ancestor. The unity of life is very striking when we examine molecules, which can be almost identical in species as different as bacteria and whales. This unity of structure and function is also evident when we compare skeletons, kidneys, or hearts among animals. Charles Darwin’s Sketch of the Tree of Life Sketching in his notebook in 1837, Charles Darwin created the first diagram of a phylogenetic tree. It shows several life forms related to each other by ancestry. The neighboring “twigs” in the lettered groups are similar species. Eventually Darwin would propose that ALL life forms find a place on one tree, and that it began with one or just a few very simple life forms long ago. Natural Selection The second major idea of evolution is that of natural selection. Natural selection helps explain how groups of organisms become well-suited, or adapted, to their surroundings. Individuals are always a bit different from their parents and from each other, partly because of changes to their genes. These differences may be helpful or harmful to the individuals that inherit them. In nature, individuals often have very low odds of surviving to reproduce. Individuals with slightly harmful or even average characteristics might be less likely to make it, and those with traits that fit in very well with the local habitat will have the greatest chance to survive and reproduce. This sorting process goes on generation after generation. Each time only a tiny fraction of those born are well-suited and lucky enough to pass their genes along; the others die, leaving no descendants. As generations of time pass, inherited features that help organisms produce offspring become more common within a population. Harmful features that reduce reproduction become less common. Many experiments have demonstrated the effects of natural selection on populations in the laboratory and in nature. The process of natural selection is one way that scientists have explained the vast diversity of life on our planet. Dandelions Illustrate Features of Natural Selection This photo shows a crowd of dandelions, all striving to reproduce. Each plant may produce hundreds of seeds, but only a few of them are likely to grow up to produce seeds of their own. In each generation there is a great sorting process, with most offspring (in this case, seeds and seedlings) dying young. Only a few survive to reproduce themselves. These survivors are probably quite well-suited to local conditions, and they will produce offspring with similar traits. As you learned previously in this module, reproduction results in the passing of characteristics from parents to offspring and maintains the continuity of life. You can see this in a family photograph: offspring resemble their parents and siblings resemble each other. Biologists look at all life on the planet and see the same patterns. According to evolutionary thinking, life forms are similar because of their shared ancestry. All cells have DNA as the molecule of inheritance and they also share many other detailed features. Organisms and cells always come from parents, and this is where they get their genetic information. Trace this process back in time, and it is reasonable to suppose that all life forms inherited DNA and many other features from a long-ago common ancestor. The unity of life is very striking when we examine molecules, which can be almost identical in species as different as bacteria and whales. This unity of structure and function is also evident when we compare skeletons, kidneys, or hearts among animals. Charles Darwin’s Sketch of the Tree of Life Sketching in his notebook in 1837, Charles Darwin created the first diagram of a phylogenetic tree. It shows several life forms related to each other by ancestry. The neighboring “twigs” in the lettered groups are similar species. Eventually Darwin would propose that ALL life forms find a place on one tree, and that it began with one or just a few very simple life forms long ago. The second major idea of evolution is that of natural selection. Natural selection helps explain how groups of organisms become well-suited, or adapted, to their surroundings. Individuals are always a bit different from their parents and from each other, partly because of changes to their genes. These differences may be helpful or harmful to the individuals that inherit them. In nature, individuals often have very low odds of surviving to reproduce. Individuals with slightly harmful or even average characteristics might be less likely to make it, and those with traits that fit in very well with the local habitat will have the greatest chance to survive and reproduce. This sorting process goes on generation after generation. Each time only a tiny fraction of those born are well-suited and lucky enough to pass their genes along; the others die, leaving no descendants. As generations of time pass, inherited features that help organisms produce offspring become more common within a population. Harmful features that reduce reproduction become less common. Many experiments have demonstrated the effects of natural selection on populations in the laboratory and in nature. The process of natural selection is one way that scientists have explained the vast diversity of life on our planet. Dandelions Illustrate Features of Natural Selection This photo shows a crowd of dandelions, all striving to reproduce. Each plant may produce hundreds of seeds, but only a few of them are likely to grow up to produce seeds of their own. In each generation there is a great sorting process, with most offspring (in this case, seeds and seedlings) dying young. Only a few survive to reproduce themselves. These survivors are probably quite well-suited to local conditions, and they will produce offspring with similar traits.   Interdependence Interdependence and Interconnectedness of Life Have you ever played a game of Jenga, where you try to remove one block at a time from a tower structure without causing the entire tower to collapse? In this game, each block depends on the other blocks for stability, and if you’re not careful, the removal of a single block can cause the destruction of the entire structure. Life is much the same. At levels from the individual to the biosphere, the various parts of living systems are interdependent. Your trillions of cells are intimately dependent on each other for survival. Your cells are specialized, and you exist because of a massive team effort from all these different cells. If any one of your major organs were to suddenly fail, you might die very quickly. Moreover, your health also depends on trillions upon trillions of bacterial cells that live in and on your body. They provide your cells with vitamins, help keep out invaders, and may even influence your mood. So your body itself is a community of interdependent cells. Jenga Game Source: Jorge Barrios, 2007; Wikipedia An ecosystem consists of all the organisms living within a defined area along with the abiotic components of that particular environment. Within an ecosystem, organisms interact with each other in helpful and harmful ways. Some types of organisms play overlapping roles with other species (e.g., six species of oak tree may have similar, if not identical, roles in a forest). Others, however, play unique and essential roles that other organisms depend upon for their survival. For example, in a Colorado forest, researchers found that a species of sapsucker (a bird similar to a woodpecker) played a vital role in providing nesting holes and food for many other species. To learn more: Gretchen Daily and others, 1993. Double keystone bird in a keystone species complex. Have you ever played a game of Jenga, where you try to remove one block at a time from a tower structure without causing the entire tower to collapse? In this game, each block depends on the other blocks for stability, and if you’re not careful, the removal of a single block can cause the destruction of the entire structure. Life is much the same. At levels from the individual to the biosphere, the various parts of living systems are interdependent. Your trillions of cells are intimately dependent on each other for survival. Your cells are specialized, and you exist because of a massive team effort from all these different cells. If any one of your major organs were to suddenly fail, you might die very quickly. Moreover, your health also depends on trillions upon trillions of bacterial cells that live in and on your body. They provide your cells with vitamins, help keep out invaders, and may even influence your mood. So your body itself is a community of interdependent cells. Jenga Game Source: Jorge Barrios, 2007; Wikipedia An ecosystem consists of all the organisms living within a defined area along with the abiotic components of that particular environment. Within an ecosystem, organisms interact with each other in helpful and harmful ways. Some types of organisms play overlapping roles with other species (e.g., six species of oak tree may have similar, if not identical, roles in a forest). Others, however, play unique and essential roles that other organisms depend upon for their survival. For example, in a Colorado forest, researchers found that a species of sapsucker (a bird similar to a woodpecker) played a vital role in providing nesting holes and food for many other species. To learn more: Gretchen Daily and others, 1993. Double keystone bird in a keystone species complex.   Unit Summary: Ecology In this unit we have explored how organisms interact with each other and with the nonliving environment. These interactions can be studied at the population, community, and ecosystem levels. Ecological knowledge can be applied to support the health and well-being of human beings and of species we care about. We began with a study of population ecology. Population size and density increase with birth or immigration and decrease with death and emigration. Populations tend to increase if provided with good living conditions. Exponential growth occurs if the per capita rate of increase remains constant; the bigger the population gets, the faster it grows. Real populations face limiting factors that increase the death rate or decrease the birth rate. If these factors intensify as a population becomes crowded, the result is logistic population growth that levels off at a population’s carrying capacity. Humans apply principles of population ecology in managing populations of endangered species, fish, game animals, pests, and more. Community ecology focuses on the populations that live and interact with each other in an area. Species can interact directly in ways that are mutually positive (mutualism), negative for both species (competition), or helpful to one species and harmful to the other (predation). Symbiosis occurs whenever two species live in close physical contact with each other. Species may also interact indirectly through third parties. Certain species play particularly important roles in communities. Foundation species provide food and habitat structure to many other species. Keystone species are important despite their low abundance. Many of them are predators; they control prey populations that would otherwise increase to disruptive levels. When a keystone species is removed, community diversity suffers. Ecosystem ecology broadens the scope to include nonliving factors. Energy flows through ecosystems, starting with sunlight and leaving every living thing as heat. Organisms form complex food webs consisting of producers and consumers, some of which (detritivores and decomposers) consume dead material. Species occupy different trophic levels based on their place within food chains. An energy pyramid pattern results from the loss of about 90% of the energy with each trophic transfer. Unlike energy, matter is constantly recycled in ecosystems. Individual atoms take countless trips through biogeochemical cycles, passing through living things, air, water, and/or rocks and soil. Bacteria act as decomposers and/or nutrient transformers in some cycles. Ecology’s greatest application is the study of environmental problems and solutions. Human activities change how biogeochemical cycles operate on a global scale. Population size, affluence, and use of high-impact technologies all contribute to our impacts. Use of renewable resources and biodegradable materials can help make our activities more sustainable. Human populations have exploded during the Industrial Age because of improvements in public health. Today the global population exceeds 7 billion and many of us enjoy a high standard of living supported by energy and materials derived from fossil fuels. Human activities tend to degrade biodiversity through habitat destruction, species introductions, overharvesting, and pollution. Anthropogenic global climate change is emerging as a critically important effect of humans on the environment. By 2050, Earth may be home to about 10 billion increasingly affluent people. Innovative green technologies, restraints on consumption, and measures to control population growth all may help to limit our impacts on the environment. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.   Rates of Population Change Populations change through four primary processes. New members can arise by birth through reproduction of existing population members. In the photo on the previous page, a white-tailed deer has given birth to two offspring (family sizes vary widely among species). New population members may also immigrate (move into the population) from other areas outside the boundaries set by the researcher. A population declines through the death of its existing members. The population may also decrease if members emigrate (move away to areas outside the boundaries enclosing the population). To simplify calculations ecologists often assume that a population is closed - that emigration and immigration do not occur. For this course we will adopt this idea and assume that, unless otherwise stated, the populations we analyze are closed. Researchers studying populations usually describe birth and death in terms of rates so that they can compare different populations to each other on a similar basis. According to Federal Bureau of Investigation Uniform Crime Report statistics, in 2010 there were roughly 530 cases of murder in New York City and about 180 murder cases in New Orleans, Louisiana. Think New York City is more dangerous? Raw numbers don’t tell the full story. In 2010, New York City had a population of over 8 million people compared to New Orleans’ population of about 350,000. Therefore the rate of murder was almost 8 times greater in New Orleans than in NYC. By calculating rates we can make fair comparisons between populations regardless of their size. The simplest way to do this is by using per capita (literally “per head”) rates where population size is included in the denominator of a rate calculation. Per capita rates can be calculated for events like birth and death or even occurrences like murders or car accidents. In each case, the calculation is equivalent. If N = population size at the beginning of a time period, the per capita rate of some event is calculated as shown below for birth and death rates: per capita rate of birth = per capita rate of death = Biologists can monitor births and deaths in a population and estimate their rates of birth and death. Imagine that biologists studying the deer at Valley Forge NHP in 1985 report the following data (fictitious but based on real estimates): total starting population N = 170 deer total number of fawns born = 110 births total number of deaths = 44 deaths Now you have some mathematical tools for describing a population’s status in terms of its size, density, and birth and death rates. As we will see in the next page, the rates of birth and death can be very helpful in projecting how a population will change over time. Below are some statistics for New York City’s human population(1) in 2009. Variable Value in 2009 N (human population size) 8,391,881 annual number of births 126,774 annual number of deaths 52,881 The total land area of the city of New York is 790 km2. (1) Source: "The City of New York, Summary of Vital Statistics 2009"   Describing Populations Population ecology is focused on how populations — of plants, animals, bacteria, and other types of organisms — change over time. A population is a group that includes all individuals of a particular species within a given area at one point in time. Population size, often represented by the variable N, is the total number of individuals in a population at a particular point in time. Population size can be an abstract concept, particularly for small organisms whose numbers can be astronomical. A single species of mosquito in a swamp might easily number in the millions or even billions of individuals. It is often better and more practical to describe such populations in terms of their density. Population density is the total number of individuals of a species per unit area or volume within a specified habitat or region. In many cases this number can be pictured and measured more easily than population size itself. It also can be used to compare populations that occupy areas of different size, allowing you to judge where a population is more or less crowded. population size = N = total number in population population density = N / area or volume occupied Valley Forge National Historical Park (NHP) in southeastern Pennsylvania is home to a large population of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). As summarized in the table below, the deer population in the park has been changing over time. For reference we also provide data for the entire state of Pennsylvania in 2007. Estimated number of deer (N) Habitat area Valley Forge NHP in 1985 170 deer 13.7 km2 Valley Forge NHP in 2008 1,600 deer 13.7 km2 State of Pennsylvania in 2007 1,029,701 117,351 km2 As illustrated by the case of Valley Forge’s deer population, population size and density are dynamic, or changeable, numbers. As humans we care about changes in the density and sizes of other populations. We notice when the density of mosquitoes skyrockets after a summer rain. We are concerned about the population sizes and densities of animals we hunt, fish we harvest for food, and endangered species we seek to conserve. Much of population ecology is directed toward predicting, understanding, and controlling changes that occur in the populations of other species over time. Why We Care about Populations In this image a mother white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and her two fawns forage in a suburban yard in Pennsylvania. These fawns, if both survive to adulthood, will replace the mother and her mate. If the mother produces additional successful offspring over her lifetime, the population will grow. Most people enjoy watching deer, but overabundant deer can damage gardens, pose a road hazard, and cause other problems for humans. By Glenn Brinette (Deer) CC BY 2.0   Exponential Growth Now that we know a bit about how to describe a population, how can we figure out how its numbers will change over time? Let’s consider the relatively simple case of a closed population, where there is no immigration or emigration. We can predict how a population’s size will change over time simply by taking the difference between the rates of birth and death: per capita rate of change = per capita rate of birth − per capita rate of death A population will grow if its rate of birth is greater than its rate of death. The population will remain constant if the two rates are equal—that is, if births are balanced by deaths. It will decrease if the rate of death is greater than the rate of birth. Think of a population as a parade of generations, with each new crop of offspring replacing the previous generation. For sexual species, the average female must produce two offspring that live to reproduce: one to replace herself, and another to replace her mate. Yet we know that most species attempt to produce more—often far more—than one or two offspring. Furthermore, they often attempt to live for several reproductive seasons, each time generating another set of offspring. As long as conditions permit good survival and successful reproduction, any population’s size will inevitably increase. For any population, the actual quantity of increase (number added to the population) will depend on how many you already have in the group. It can be calculated as follows: total number added per unit time = per capita rate of increase * starting N That is, the per captita rate of increase multiplied by the starting population size (N). Now you see that a rate of increase predicts how much a population will grow, and that all species tend to increase if given good conditions for growth. Below are a table and a graph that continue the process of growth for the Valley Forge NHP deer population, using our estimated annual per capita growth rate of 0.39 deer added per deer per year. Exponential Model of Valley Forge NHP Deer Population The population is projected to grow at a constant annual rate of increase (0.39 deer added per deer per year, or 39% annual growth). Each year, the starting N is updated to reflect the growth of the previous year. For example, the starting population for 1986 (236) = the base population from 1985 (170) plus the growth from 1985 (66). Although the per capita rate of growth remains constant, the number added each year increases with the base population. Year N at Start of Year Number Added 1985 170 66 1986 236 92 1987 328 128 1988 457 178 1989 635 247 1990 882 344 1991 1226 478 1992 1704 665 1993 2369 924 1994 3293 1284 1995 4577 1785 Exponential growth Exponential growth of the Valley Forge NHP deer population assuming continued growth at a constant annual rate of increase (0.39 deer added per deer per year or 39% annual growth). The table and graph above depict a pattern of change called exponential growth. In exponential growth, a quantity grows by a constant percentage each time step. As the quantity gets larger, so does the actual amount of growth that occurs. Some familiar examples of exponential growth involve finances. A bank account may earn 1% of its value in interest each year.When the bank account’s value is $100, 1% amounts to a dollar. But if the account already contains $1 million, a gain of 1% brings in $10,000! You can recognize exponential growth as a pattern in which the numbers increase faster and faster with each time step. A series of numbers with this property would be 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, and so on. Visually, you can imagine exponential growth as a snowball rolling down a hill, picking up snow as it goes: the bigger it gets, the faster it grows. A wildfire spreading through dry grass might also grow exponentially. In a graph, exponential growth shows up as a J-shaped curve.If you imagine the graph as a staircase, each individual step is taller than the one that came before it. A contrasting model of growth is linear growth. Here a quantity grows by a constant number (not percentage) in each time interval. A series of numbers with this growth pattern would be 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and so on. Each time step the quantity increases by 2, no matter how big it might already be. In a graph, linear growth appears as a straight line. A staircase is linear: the risers are evenly spaced and you gain a set amount of height with each subsequent step. Compared to linear growth, the exponential growth pattern is a better starting point for predicting how populations will change over time. It captures a little bit of reality, in that a bigger group will have more individuals capable of producing offspring. However, it is important to emphasize that the table and graph above are based on a “what-if” exercise. They show numbers generated by a model of how populations increase. This model assumes that the growth rate will remain constant and predicts how the population will change if this condition is met. All populations have the potential and tendency to increase. For sexual species, each adult female must produce two adult offspring to replace herself and her mate and thereby maintain a steady population size. But if conditions are right, individuals of any type of organism will produce offspring in excess of this replacement number. The exponential model of growth predicts what will happen if this potential is realized each generation for an extended period of time. The population will grow faster and faster the larger it gets, producing a characteristic J-shaped curve on a graph of population size over time. The population is projected to grow at a constant annual rate of increase (0.39 deer added per deer per year, or 39% annual growth). Each year, the starting N is updated to reflect the growth of the previous year. For example, the starting population for 1986 (236) = the base population from 1985 (170) plus the growth from 1985 (66). Although the per capita rate of growth remains constant, the number added each year increases with the base population. Year N at Start of Year Number Added 1985 170 66 1986 236 92 1987 328 128 1988 457 178 1989 635 247 1990 882 344 1991 1226 478 1992 1704 665 1993 2369 924 1994 3293 1284 1995 4577 1785 Exponential growth Exponential growth of the Valley Forge NHP deer population assuming continued growth at a constant annual rate of increase (0.39 deer added per deer per year or 39% annual growth). The table and graph above depict a pattern of change called exponential growth. In exponential growth, a quantity grows by a constant percentage each time step. As the quantity gets larger, so does the actual amount of growth that occurs. Some familiar examples of exponential growth involve finances. A bank account may earn 1% of its value in interest each year.When the bank account’s value is $100, 1% amounts to a dollar. But if the account already contains $1 million, a gain of 1% brings in $10,000! You can recognize exponential growth as a pattern in which the numbers increase faster and faster with each time step. A series of numbers with this property would be 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, and so on. Visually, you can imagine exponential growth as a snowball rolling down a hill, picking up snow as it goes: the bigger it gets, the faster it grows. A wildfire spreading through dry grass might also grow exponentially. In a graph, exponential growth shows up as a J-shaped curve.If you imagine the graph as a staircase, each individual step is taller than the one that came before it. A contrasting model of growth is linear growth. Here a quantity grows by a constant number (not percentage) in each time interval. A series of numbers with this growth pattern would be 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and so on. Each time step the quantity increases by 2, no matter how big it might already be. In a graph, linear growth appears as a straight line. A staircase is linear: the risers are evenly spaced and you gain a set amount of height with each subsequent step. Compared to linear growth, the exponential growth pattern is a better starting point for predicting how populations will change over time. It captures a little bit of reality, in that a bigger group will have more individuals capable of producing offspring. However, it is important to emphasize that the table and graph above are based on a “what-if” exercise. They show numbers generated by a model of how populations increase. This model assumes that the growth rate will remain constant and predicts how the population will change if this condition is met. All populations have the potential and tendency to increase. For sexual species, each adult female must produce two adult offspring to replace herself and her mate and thereby maintain a steady population size. But if conditions are right, individuals of any type of organism will produce offspring in excess of this replacement number. The exponential model of growth predicts what will happen if this potential is realized each generation for an extended period of time. The population will grow faster and faster the larger it gets, producing a characteristic J-shaped curve on a graph of population size over time.   Limiting Factors What actually happened to the deer population at Valley Forge NHP from 1985 onward? Data are not available for the late 1980s or early 1990s. However, the record that is available looks like this: Estimated changes in deer population at Valley Forge NHP. Data are not available for the time period from 1985 to 1996.Source: A few things are evident in the graph. First, the population did not increase to over 4500 by 1995 as predicted by the simple exponential growth model. Instead, it increased to about 1400 until the early 2000s and then began to fluctuate. The exponential growth model assumes that populations will maintain constant rates of birth, death, and increase as they grow larger. In reality, we often see that populations stop growing—and sometimes even crash—due to the effects of limiting factors. Limiting factors are biotic or abiotic factors that limit populations by reducing birth rates, increasing death rates, or both. Limiting factors may also increase rates of emigration or decrease immigration. Sometimes limiting factors act in an unpredictable way to reduce population sizes. Hard freezes, fires, droughts, and floods are all examples of factors that could act to quickly reduce a population. These factors most strongly affect small-bodied organisms that are easy to kill such as insects, microbes, and weedy plants. Their populations often show an erratic boom-and-bust pattern: population sizes shoot up when times are good and crash when conditions are bad. Ecologists agree that it is difficult to predict or model the changes in such populations, except by taking into account the weather or other outside factors known to control them. Other types of limiting factors act more gradually and have their greatest effects when populations are crowded. Scarce resources, limited space, and infectious diseases are important examples. These factors often play the greatest role in limiting large-bodied organisms with extended life spans such as large animals and woody plants. For example, deer survive frost well but are more likely to starve in a hard winter if there are many mouths to feed. Over time, populations of such species limit themselves: they remain close to a stable size called the carrying capacity. When a population is at its carrying capacity, it does not tend to increase or decrease but tends to stay essentially the same over many generations. At least in principle, we can predict what will happen to a self-limiting population over time: it should grow until it reaches its carrying capacity and then remain stable. This pattern of change is calledlogistic growth. It is simple to describe logistic growth with a math equation that allows a population to grow when it is small but causes it to level off when it reaches a predetermined value (the carrying capacity). A logistic model for the Valley Forge NHP is shown below, superimposed on the actual population data from the park. Logistic model and observed population sizes for deer at Valley Forge NHP. In purple (diamond symbols) are the observed population sizes for deer at Valley Forge NHP. Based on these data, a logistic growth model was developed assuming that the carrying capacity = 1312 deer and the average annual per capita rate of increase over the period was 0.23, or 23%. The logistic model output is plotted with a green line / square symbols. A graph of logistic growth shows up as a slightly S-shaped curve. Initial growth is relatively slow because the population is small and has few individuals to give birth. At moderate population sizes the population grows fastest: there are many parents but the effects of crowding are not yet severe. As the population approaches its carrying capacity, the effects of crowding start to reduce its growth. The rate of growth slows and then stops.   Managing Populations for Human Benefit Principles of population ecology are critically important to many enterprises including game and fisheries management, conservation of rare and endangered species, and pest control. How can a population be “managed”? Managers seek to control conditions for survival and reproduction. Management of threatened or endangered species may simply involve increasing birth and reducing death rates as much as possible, though this is often easier said than done. To help such species, conservationists may breed them in captivity and release individuals back into the wild. Captive breeding programs have been used to aid in the recovery of many species, including the peregrine falcon and the black-footed ferret. Most endangered species management focuses on improving survival rates (reducing death rates) by banning harvest of these species or trade in their products, by eliminating introduced predators, or by improving habitat conditions. The situation is more complicated when the goal is to manage a resource so that it can be harvested. Consider a population of fish that supports a commercial fishery. Here, the goal is to maximize the harvest rate while maintaining a healthy population size. How can principles of population ecology help in choosing the best rate of harvest? The general idea is that a population is like a bank account. Every so often, we can remove the interest that has accumulated in a bank account. This can continue indefinitely so long as we do not remove any of the principal that is earning the interest. Similarly, every so often we can remove a population’s growth without causing the population to decline: it will be reset to its beginning level and the harvested individuals will be replaced by further reproduction and growth. Ideally, we should be able to find the population size that provide the maximum level of growth (and harvest) each year. Population modeling can help with this effort. Rates of growth in the logistic model Logistic model of population growth. This model shows how a fish population would change over many years in the absence of fishing by humans. Dotted lines are approximately tangent to the curve at three points: where N is 10% of the carrying capacity, where it is 50% of carrying capacity, and where it is 90% of carrying capacity. Many harvestable populations grow in a way that is fairly close to the logistic growth model predictions. In the graph above, tangent lines are used to illustrate how quickly a population is growing at three different population sizes. As you have just seen, the logistic model indicates that a harvestable population should be maintained at a moderate size of about half its carrying capacity. At this point there is a large increment of growth each year and these individuals can be harvested. This is the general framework used by fisheries managers as they seek to maintain and improve the productivity of fish populations. They often set regulations and allowable harvest limits to try to keep populations close to the “sweet spot” at about 50% of carrying capacity. Fishery managed to maximize harvest. This idealized diagram shows a fish population managed to maximize the sustainable harvest. The average size of the population is maintained at 50% of the carrying capacity. Each year, the annual growth is harvested (glowing dashed lines = harvest). The surviving population grows at a maximum rate and rebounds to enable another harvest. Population models help officials manage fisheries for maximum benefits to commercial fishermen and recreational anglers. However, this approach can be risky. Models are not the same as reality. Outside factors such as weather events, disease epidemics, and so on can sometimes unpredictablydecimate fish populations. With fewer adults in the population, the population cannot rebound after a harvest that would normally be sustainable. Even just one bad year can set up a series of events in which the population dwindles over time. Because of this unpredictability, many fisheries managers try to maintain populations at a level that is a bit “too high” (say, 75% of carrying capacity) and limit harvest rates accordingly. This reduces the amount of fish that can be harvested but it also reduces the risk that harvests will drive the population downward. Endangered species and fisheries management are just a few of the areas in which principles of population ecology are applied to solve real-world problems. Pest management is often a very challenging exercise because pest species tend to reproduce very rapidly and show a boom-and-bust pattern of growth. Even if we can induce a bust—say, by spraying an insecticide—the population is likely to rebound with another boom unless we can reduce the birth rate. Effective pest management often requires that several strategies be used together with careful monitoring of the pest population. Population management can also raise ethical issues. It involves life-and-death decisions that can be very emotionally charged. At Valley Forge NHP, park managers recognized the need to act as deer populations climbed past 1,000 and serious ecological damage began to occur. The park’s plant diversity was severely threatened by the high deer numbers; few tree seedlings or wildflowers were able to survive except within small fenced areas (deer exclosures). Most agreed that something should be done, but how should the deer population be controlled? It would be unsafe to allow the public to hunt in the park. Some citizens argued that birth control injections should be used to manage the population, but evidence indicated that this would be expensive and ineffective. After extensive deliberation and community input, a deer control program was begun. In the winters of 2010 and 2011, sharpshooters were contracted to kill deer at the park; meat was provided to an area food bank. Sharpshooters removed 600 deer in 2010 and 377 deer in 2011. As a result, the deer population fell from 1,277 in 2009 to 374 in the spring of 2012. Initial data indicate that many tree, shrub, and wildflower species are already beginning to recover as a result. To learn more / sources: Valley Forge NHP White-Tailed Deer Management Page   Populations: Summary The science of ecology starts at the population level. Populations are groups of organisms of the same species that live in a defined area. We can describe populations in terms of their number (population size, N) and their density (number per unit area or volume). Populations increase through the processes of birth and immigration; they decrease through death and emigration. When comparing processes like birth or death among populations, it is often useful to calculate per capita rates (number of events per individual per unit time). If a population is closed (no immigration or emigration), it will change at a rate that is determined by the balance between births and deaths: the per capita rate of change = per capita birth rate - per capita death rate. If conditions are ideal, all populations have the tendency to increase, with the birth rate exceeding the death rate. Exponential growth is a pattern of increase in which the per capita rate of increase is constant and positive. As a result, the population grows faster the larger it gets. A graph of exponential growth resembles a J-shaped curve. For a short time, real populations can show bursts of growth that fit predictions of the exponential model. However, many different factors influence real populations and cause their numbers to vary over time in a somewhat unpredictable way. Any exponential growth model eventually predicts population sizes that are impossibly large. In reality, limiting factors put the brakes on population growth by reducing birth rates and/or increasing death rates. Often these factors become particularly intense when populations are large and crowded. The result is logistic growth, a pattern in which populations rise quickly at first and then level off at carrying capacity. A graph of logistic growth resembles a lazy S-shaped curve. In this module, we looked at the deer population in Valley Forge National Historical Park as a case study in population ecology. When the Park was established and closed off to hunting, the population initially shot up in a pattern resembling exponential growth. It then leveled off when the deer population reached its carrying capacity in the absence of hunting, demonstrating logistic growth. Unfortunately, this produced a density of deer that was harmful to the Park’s plant populations. To protect the Park’s plant diversity, managers used sharpshooters to increase deer mortality and limit the population size. This is just one of many examples in which people apply principles of population ecology to real-world problems. Conservation of endangered species requires analysis of population changes and action to reduce death rates or increase birth rates. Control of pests and disease agents requires exactly the opposite approach. Management of fisheries or other harvestable resources may involve maintenance of an optimal population size (often about half the carrying capacity) that maximizes rates of growth and reproduction. In the next module we will explore what happens when many populations of different species interact with each other within ecological communities. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. birth carrying capacity death emigrate exponential growth immigrate limiting factor linear growth per capita rate per capita rate of birth per capita rate of death population population change population density population size The science of ecology starts at the population level. Populations are groups of organisms of the same species that live in a defined area. We can describe populations in terms of their number (population size, N) and their density (number per unit area or volume). Populations increase through the processes of birth and immigration; they decrease through death and emigration. When comparing processes like birth or death among populations, it is often useful to calculate per capita rates (number of events per individual per unit time). If a population is closed (no immigration or emigration), it will change at a rate that is determined by the balance between births and deaths: the per capita rate of change = per capita birth rate - per capita death rate. If conditions are ideal, all populations have the tendency to increase, with the birth rate exceeding the death rate. Exponential growth is a pattern of increase in which the per capita rate of increase is constant and positive. As a result, the population grows faster the larger it gets. A graph of exponential growth resembles a J-shaped curve. For a short time, real populations can show bursts of growth that fit predictions of the exponential model. However, many different factors influence real populations and cause their numbers to vary over time in a somewhat unpredictable way. Any exponential growth model eventually predicts population sizes that are impossibly large. In reality, limiting factors put the brakes on population growth by reducing birth rates and/or increasing death rates. Often these factors become particularly intense when populations are large and crowded. The result is logistic growth, a pattern in which populations rise quickly at first and then level off at carrying capacity. A graph of logistic growth resembles a lazy S-shaped curve. In this module, we looked at the deer population in Valley Forge National Historical Park as a case study in population ecology. When the Park was established and closed off to hunting, the population initially shot up in a pattern resembling exponential growth. It then leveled off when the deer population reached its carrying capacity in the absence of hunting, demonstrating logistic growth. Unfortunately, this produced a density of deer that was harmful to the Park’s plant populations. To protect the Park’s plant diversity, managers used sharpshooters to increase deer mortality and limit the population size. This is just one of many examples in which people apply principles of population ecology to real-world problems. Conservation of endangered species requires analysis of population changes and action to reduce death rates or increase birth rates. Control of pests and disease agents requires exactly the opposite approach. Management of fisheries or other harvestable resources may involve maintenance of an optimal population size (often about half the carrying capacity) that maximizes rates of growth and reproduction. In the next module we will explore what happens when many populations of different species interact with each other within ecological communities. Review the following key terms from this module. birth carrying capacity death emigrate exponential growth immigrate limiting factor linear growth per capita rate per capita rate of birth per capita rate of death population population change population density population size   Complex Interactions in Communities Ecological communities can be dizzyingly complex. A community may be home to thousands of species, and every single one of them may be linked to several others through a variety of interactions. Among all this complexity, ecologists have worked to discover the most meaningful and important interactions: those that determine the stability and diversity of the whole community. One way to simplify the problem is to focus on a few particularly important species. Species that are physically dominant (largest and/or most abundant) in communities are sometimes called foundation species. They include the most abundant trees within terrestrial forests, common grasses within grasslands, and reef-building corals. Foundation species directly provide habitat and often food for most of the other species in the community. Anything that threatens their well-being is likely to harm many other species as well. Along the coast of western North America, rocky areas are often home to a spectacular community called the kelp forest. It is dominated by kelp, big brown algae (seaweeds) whose fronds can stretch to dozens of meters in length. Kelp are clearly the foundation species of the kelp forest: they provide food and shelter to a huge diversity of fish and invertebrates including such economically important species as lobster and rockfish. Kelp and sardines off the California coast Kelp fronds shown here are surrounded by sardines and provide food and cover for a wide range of marine animals. By NOAA (Kelp and Sardines) CC BY-SA 2.0 Most communities are clearly dependent on one or a few foundation species. But not every important species has effects that are so obvious. In ecological communities, many interactions are indirect.Indirect interactions, sometimes called “ripple effects,” occur through chains of cause and effect. The effect of one species on another is said to be indirect if one or more additional species are involved in the interaction as intermediaries. Complexity of this sort is a source of fascination and challenge for ecologists attempting to unravel how communities work. Indirect interactions can produce surprises in communities. Some species, called keystone species, may be very influential in communities even though they are not particularly abundant or large. In architecture, a keystone is a single wedge-shaped stone at the top of a stone arch that maintains the integrity of the structure; its removal will cause both sides of the arch to collapse. A keystone species, then is a species that has an unexpectedly strong effect on community stability or diversity. Keystone species play unique roles and are not easily replaced by other species within the community. We often discover their importance only after they are eliminated by human actions. Within kelp forests, human hunting revealed the importance of a keystone species. The story begins with urchins, which are abundant bottom-dwelling grazers and scavengers. Kelp are tough and fast-growing, but urchins (animals related tostarfish) can eat them with their hard rasp-like mouth parts. Urchins are protected by their prickly spines and a hard outer shell. In the absence of factors controlling their abundance, urchins can increase to very high densities, producing what are sometimes called “urchin barrens” devoid of kelp. Unlike kelp forests, urchin barrens do not support much life. Purple sea urchins A thick aggregation of purple sea urchins at a tidepool in California. By Steve Jurvetson (Purple Urchins) CC BY 2.0 What factors normally keep urchins in check? In the cold waters off the west coast of Alaska and Canada, evidence points to one factor as particularly critical: the presence of sea otters. Historically, humans hunted sea otters for their fur, nearly eliminating them by the late 1800s. More recently, sea otters have been reintroduced to many areas where they had been absent. Since the 1980s, researchers, including James Estes of the University of California Santa Cruz, have been tracking sea otter numbers and documenting their effects on marine communities in Alaska and off the coast of British Columbia. They have found that the sea otter is a keystone species in the kelp forest. Sea otters are uniquely suited to eating the urchins. With their dexterous paws and long incisors, they can crack open the urchins, eating the soft flesh inside. Sometimes they even use rocks as tools to crush tough prey. After eating an urchin, a sea otter discards its empty shell, or test. A study published in 2011 by Estes and Jane Watson reported that when broken tests sink to the bottom, remaining urchins will flee from the immediate area. Thus, sea otters can reduce urchin numbers and change urchin behavior. In this way, otters safeguard kelp and help to maintain healthy kelp forests. California Sea Otter resting within a group off the coast of California. Note the large teeth, which are used to break into sea urchins and help explain the unique keystone role of sea otters in Alaskan and Canadian kelp forests. A frond of kelp is wrapped around the otter’s abdomen. Note that kelp forests in California do not appear to depend as directly on sea otters as those in Alaska or Canada. A wider range of factors may act to control urchin numbers along the California coast. Left image by Mike Baird (California Sea Otter) CC BY 2.0 Right Image by Mike Baird (California Sea Otter resting) CC BY 2.0 Kelp forests provide a glimpse into the many facets of community ecology. They are complex, with more than twenty species of kelp plus hundreds of animal species. They also are structured in an understandable way, with some species interactions more important than others. As ecologists continue to unravel community interactions, we are improving in our ability to predict how communities will respond to factors like hunting. Kelp forests are a treasured resource for recreational diving and fishing. Kelp also are harvested for use in aquaculture and industry. The science of ecology can help us learn more about kelp forests and supports our efforts to safeguard these dazzling communities. Source and To Learn More:Whipple, WJ and RL Beschta. 2012. Trophic cascades in Yellowstone: The first 15 years after wolf reintroduction. Biological Conservation 145: 205-213.   Community Interactions An interspecific interaction is an effect of one population on another in a community. Although we are often focused on how one population affects the size of another, ecologists also may look at how species interact in terms of their activity, growth rates, body size, or other aspects of their well-being. Interactions are classified according to their consequences for each species involved. The most important types of interactions are summarized in the table below. Interspecific interactions classified by consequences for interacting species. Interaction Species 1 Species 2 Description Example(s) mutualism benefits from presence of species 2 benefits from presence of species 1 Win-win interactions. May involve species trading materials, services, or both. The cleaner wrasse is a small fish that eats parasites from mouths of larger fish. Both benefit: wrasse gets food, big fish gets groomed. predation predator benefits from presence of prey prey harmed by presence of predator Usually involves predator killing and eating prey. Also includes more subtle types of win-lose interactions. Bird (predator) eats caterpillar (prey). Bird benefits, caterpillar is harmed. Grasshopper (predator) eats plant (prey). Grasshopper benefits, plant is harmed. competition harmed by presence of competitor harmed by presence of competitor Lose-lose interactions. May involve two species interfering directly (fighting) or using the same limiting resource. Two species of grass grow together in a meadow. Both require light, water, and similar nutrients. If one species of grass is removed, the other species grows better and reproduces more. In a community, any pair of species may potentially interact. However, some interactions are much clearer and more easily predictable than others. Direct interactions occur when two species make contact and affect each other’s well-being without the participation of any third species. Some pairs of species are intimately and physically connected, with a smaller species (symbiont) living in or on the body of a larger species (host). These direct interactions are described using the term symbiosis,which translates to “together living.” In other cases the contact between direct interactors is more fleeting, as when a bee visits a flower or when a hawk swoops down on its prey. Mutualistic, or mutually beneficial, relationships are widespread and important features of communities. Sometimes mutualism also involves symbiosis. Many animals and plants are host to microorganisms that provide them with vital functions. In other cases, equally important mutualistic transactions are carried out at a distance: not all mutualisms are symbiotic. Plants, for example, reward animals for transportation services that allow them to mate (pollination) and travel as seeds (seed dispersal). Animals also may help each other in subtle ways. Predation can be broadly defined as any win-lose interaction, though it is most commonly used to describe situations where one species kills and eats another. You are no doubt familiar with many spectacular examples, as when a pack of wolves takes down a moose. More subtle examples of predation also exist. Sometimes the predator will eat only part of the prey, allowing it to live another day. Though we often use the term “herbivory” for the consumption of plants, the moose might itself be considered a predator if it harms the plants on which it feeds. Many forms of predation involve symbiosis. Such interactions are called parasitism and may involve animal or a plant hosts that provide both habitat and food to their harmful symbionts. Competition is a lose-lose, or mutually harmful, relationship between two species. Two species are competitors if each would be better off alone. Clear examples of competition are often seen among plants that require very similar resources, such as light, water, and certain mineral nutrients. Animals may compete for space, sometimes fighting directly for territory or simply excluding each other from living sites. Animals that eat similar foods may also sometimes make life harder for each other, though here the degree of competition is often limited because each species may eat slightly different foods. Whenever ecologists study species interactions, they try to get clear data answering “what-if” questions. What happens to prey populations if a predator is removed from a community, or if a new predator shows up? Do two species really compete; that is, do they each do better if they are alone than if they are living together in a habitat? Can a species and its mutualist live apart, or are the two species entirely dependent on each other? Sometimes we can learn about these issues simply by observing what happens when introduced species—species brought into an area by human activity—establish themselves in a community. We can also see what happens to the larger community if a particular population is eradicated by human activity. On a smaller scale, ecologists sometimes carry out true experiments. In these studies ecologists deliberately manipulate the presence or abundance of species in enclosures or in natural environments and then track what happens to other species as a result. Explore some examples of species interactions below. In each case you may be asked to identify the type of interaction—mutualism, predation, or competition—and to clarify exactly how the species interact. Ecological interactions range from harmful to helpful and can take on many forms. Some interactions involve exchanges of materials; others are more subtle and involve services or behaviors. Mutualistic interactions often develop when two partners have complementary abilities. For example, aphids are excellent plant sap drillers but ants are much tougher and more mobile, so the trade between aphid and ant is quite logical. Predation is a nearly universal interaction: almost every organism is food for something else, and most animals eat living prey of some kind. Competition often develops where individuals or species have similar requirements, like the plants that will crowd together in a dense Alabama thicket if conditions permit it.   Introduction to Ecological Communities Until now, we have focused on specific populations responding to limiting factors such as weather, crowding, or fishing by humans. Community ecology broadens the focus to explore how populations of different species interact with each other. An ecological community is the collection of all interacting species populations within some defined area. Because animals move in and out of any given area, it can be tricky to determine what populations belong within a community. For example, birds such as herons may interact with pond communities by removing fish. They are therefore included as part of the pond community because they can have an important effect on pond life. Scientists learn about species interactions first by direct observation. For example, it is simple enough to discover a predator-prey relationship by watching a lion take down an antelope, or by finding prey in a predator’s stomach. However, community ecologists often want to go a step further and determine the consequences of an interaction. How will a community change if a new species is added, or if an existing population dies out? To find out, ecologists may do comparative observations or experiments, as we will see in this module. In several examples we will also see that community ecology is important to people. Managers of nature preserves and wildlife parks seek to increase or maintain the diversity of native species in the areas under their care. Community interactions may also control the abundance of pests, disease agents, pollinators, fish, game animals, and other species that have a direct effect on human well-being. An ecological community can be described in many different ways. One statistic that is often of interest is the species richness of a community: the number of different species of organisms present in a given area. Some communities, such as tropical rainforest or coral reef communities, have high species richness with thousands of species of plants, animals, and microorganisms coexisting in a small area. Other communities with harsher conditions (deserts, arctic tundra, salt lakes) may hold far fewer species. Within any region, a given type of habitat will have a fairly predictable level of species richness. Human activities that alter living conditions, such as pollution or habitat destruction, can change the membership of communities and usually will cause species richness to drop. Thus a naturally high level of species richness is one indicator that a community is healthy and relatively unaffected by human activities.   Communities: Summary Summary Community ecology deals with interactions among different species of living organisms. An ecological community is made up of all of the populations that live in an area and interact with each other. One statistic used to describe communities is species richness: the total number of different species that are present. Often high species richness is an indicator of a healthy community that is not very heavily altered or disturbed by human activities. Organisms of different species affect each other through many different kinds of interspecific interactions. Some species live in close physical contact (symbiosis). Interactions can be classified based on their effects on each party. The three principal types of interactions are mutualism (win-win), competition (lose-lose), and predation (win-lose). Key examples of mutualism include pollination, seed dispersal, and many symbiotic interactions involving microbes that live in or on larger plant and animal hosts. Competition is common among species with very similar requirements, and is particularly prevalent among plants. All organisms are involved in predation, playing roles as predators and/or prey. Symbionts that harm their hosts are classified as parasites. Natural communities are home to thousands of species; each species may interact directly with hundreds of others. Moreover, species can also participate in indirect interactions; in such cases the two species do not contact each other directly, but they affect each other through a chain of cause and effect. Therefore ecological communities are exceedingly complex. Despite their complexity, ecologists have learned a great deal about how communities operate. One helpful strategy is to focus on certain species that play important roles that help to maintain the community’s diversity and stability. Foundation species make up a large part of the bulk of the community, providing food and physical habitat to many other species. Keystone species, by contrast, are important despite their low abundance or small size. Some of them, like sea otters and gray wolves, are predators that maintain community diversity by keeping certain prey populations in check. We have learned about the importance of keystone species through experiments and also through experience. Hunting or trapping of a keystone species may cause many unanticipated and unintended effects on the community as a whole. In the next module we will broaden our focus a bit, recognizing that populations don’t just interact with each other: they also influence and respond to a host of nonliving, or abiotic, factors. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. community interaction competition ecological community foundation species indirect interaction interspecific interaction keystone species mutualism predation species richness symbiosis Quiz Community ecology deals with interactions among different species of living organisms. An ecological community is made up of all of the populations that live in an area and interact with each other. One statistic used to describe communities is species richness: the total number of different species that are present. Often high species richness is an indicator of a healthy community that is not very heavily altered or disturbed by human activities. Organisms of different species affect each other through many different kinds of interspecific interactions. Some species live in close physical contact (symbiosis). Interactions can be classified based on their effects on each party. The three principal types of interactions are mutualism (win-win), competition (lose-lose), and predation (win-lose). Key examples of mutualism include pollination, seed dispersal, and many symbiotic interactions involving microbes that live in or on larger plant and animal hosts. Competition is common among species with very similar requirements, and is particularly prevalent among plants. All organisms are involved in predation, playing roles as predators and/or prey. Symbionts that harm their hosts are classified as parasites. Natural communities are home to thousands of species; each species may interact directly with hundreds of others. Moreover, species can also participate in indirect interactions; in such cases the two species do not contact each other directly, but they affect each other through a chain of cause and effect. Therefore ecological communities are exceedingly complex. Despite their complexity, ecologists have learned a great deal about how communities operate. One helpful strategy is to focus on certain species that play important roles that help to maintain the community’s diversity and stability. Foundation species make up a large part of the bulk of the community, providing food and physical habitat to many other species. Keystone species, by contrast, are important despite their low abundance or small size. Some of them, like sea otters and gray wolves, are predators that maintain community diversity by keeping certain prey populations in check. We have learned about the importance of keystone species through experiments and also through experience. Hunting or trapping of a keystone species may cause many unanticipated and unintended effects on the community as a whole. In the next module we will broaden our focus a bit, recognizing that populations don’t just interact with each other: they also influence and respond to a host of nonliving, or abiotic, factors. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. community interaction competition ecological community foundation species indirect interaction interspecific interaction keystone species mutualism predation species richness symbiosis   Future Prospects for Human Populations and Impact We began this module by considering how three factors have changed over time: human population size, affluence or material consumption, and human use of high-impact technologies. Next we examined how these factors have led, through various mechanisms, to effects on biodiversity and climate. But what does all this say about the future? Here we will conclude by looking at how population, affluence, and technology may change, and how these changes are likely to affect humanity’s impact on the global environment. Future global populations Based on our graph showing how population has exploded during the Industrial Age, you may assume that it will continue to increase dramatically with no end in sight. Recall that world population began to grow rapidly in the 1800s. At this time death rates began to fall rapidly with advances in public health worldwide. Some of the most important factors were improved sanitation, basic medical care, and nutrition; later the trend was reinforced by immunization and the use of antibiotics. This health-driven reduction in death rates started in western Europe, North America, and other industrialized nations. Today, all nations have benefited to some degree from these trends; total longevity is increasing worldwide and rates of infant and child mortality continue to fall. Death rates are low and headed lower. Does this mean populations are growing equally fast everywhere? Fertility (which corresponds to the birth rate) is the main factor that determines modern and future rates of population growth. Since about 1900, birth rates have declined in industrialized, high-income nations. Why? Education and economic opportunity for women, access to contraception, and changing economic pressures have all contributed to reduced fertility in these countries. With low rates of death and birth, populations are stable or even declining in many of the world’s most affluent nations. In less developed low- and middle-income nations, fertility rates are still high enough to generate rapid population growth. In addition, these countries have populations with many young people just now entering reproductive age. Therefore the populations of these nations will continue to grow rapidly for years into the future. Overall, the global population will continue to increase for at least a few decades, and this increase will be driven mainly by growth in the low- and middle-income nations of Africa and Asia. Experts predict that fertility will continue to fall in most nations as they develop economically, as contraception becomes more available, and as educational and economic opportunities for women improve. If so, the world population is projected to peak at around 9 to 11 billion in 2050 and begin to decline thereafter. Future changes in affluence and technology As their populations continue to expand, trends and projections indicate that low- and middle-income nations will also continue to increase in their affluence. Automobiles, electronic gadgets, and household conveniences like air conditioning and indoor plumbing are likely to reach more and more people in populous and fast-growing economies like those of Brazil, India, and China. What does this mean for the global environment? By 2050, projections suggest that the world’s humans may use a total of 140 billion tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year—three times the current consumption rate (United Nations Environmental Programme, International Resource Panel, 2011). Will Earth be able to sustain these high levels of consumption spread across a population of 9 to 11 billion people? Much will depend on the next factor, technology. After high standards of living have been achieved, societies have tended to shift toward use of lower-impact and greener technologies. Take, for example, the use of fossil fuels. Within the United States and Europe several trends such as greater efficiency and a shift toward renewable and nuclear power have led to reduced emissions of carbon dioxide per dollar of goods and services generated. Carbon dioxide emissions per dollar of national economic activity in China, the United States, and France in 2009. For each unit of economic activity, China generated four times as much carbon dioxide than did France. China: 0.81 kg CO2 / $ GDP U.S.A.: 0.41 kg CO2 / $ GDP France: 0.18 kg CO2 / $ GDP Heavy reliance on coal, older and less efficient industrial and consumer technology Continued primary reliance on fossil fuels, newer and more efficient technology Strong shift toward nuclear power, more energy-efficient technology Several important low-impact technologies are currently in various stages of development. Some examples include renewable electric power (mainly solar and wind power), use of plant and algal biomass as a source of renewable fuel, and improvements in the sustainability of appliances and buildings. In many industries, improvements are occurring gradually through better management practices that reduce waste output, reduce energy and resource use, and reduce harm to the environment. These efforts are often supported by certification systems and ecolabels that help consumers choose lower-impact products. Examples include the Forest Stewardship Council for sustainable forest products, the Marine Stewardship Council for sustainable seafood, LEED certification for sustainable buildings, and the U.S. EPA Energy Star and Water Sense labels for energy- and water-efficient appliances. If these trends continue and spread globally, humanity may be able to limit some of its future environmental impacts through technological progress. However, new and more sustainable green technologies are not guaranteed to succeed. They are usually developed first in industrialized nations and their use may be limited by cost. Ultimately, green technologies will reduce our collective environmental impact only if they are widely used. To have a large effect, they must be adopted widely in industrialized nations and then quickly transferred to the fast-growing and populous nations of Asia and Africa. Major public and private investments may be needed to meet this goal. The challenge of global climate change Climate change is the most troubling environmental impact of humanity because of the global and potentially severe nature of its effects. How can humans tackle such a big and complex problem? Efforts to deal with global climate change can be placed in two broad categories: mitigation and adaptation. Climate change mitigation is the effort to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or increase the rate at which they are removed from the air, thereby slowing the pace and reducing the severity of climate change. Some of the actions that could be taken to accomplish this include energy conservation, widespread adoption of renewable energy technologies, increased use of nuclear power, switching from coal to natural gas, and capture and storage of CO2 from coal-burning power plants. We can also work to increase the extent and growth of carbon-absorbing forests. Changes to agriculture and waste disposal practices could help reduce emissions of methane and nitrous oxides. At a fundamental level, efforts to slow population growth may mitigate climate change simply by reducing population growth, which is a key underlying factor driving all human impacts on the environment. Changes to mitigate climate change can be costly. Deciding whether to make such changes requires detailed scientific analysis. How much will a given action help to reduce climate change? What other costs and benefits will be generated? Unfortunately, there is a limit to what we can reasonably expect to achieve with mitigation. Some degree of climate warming has already occurred. Experts agree that even with our best efforts to mitigate growth in greenhouse gas emissions, these gases will continue to build up in the atmosphere and will continue to modify climate for many decades. Climate change adaptation is the effort to make humans and ecosystems less vulnerable to the effects of ongoing and future climate change. To reduce the consequences of climate change, we can develop crops that are better adapted to a warmer and drier world; improve irrigation systems to compensate for expected droughts; protect coasts from rising sea levels with sea walls or with buffer zones of natural vegetation; improve emergency response systems and preparedness; and deliberately move people, plants, and other species to areas where the climate is likely to be more tolerable in the future. Scientific assessments help to predict future changes and test the effectiveness of adaptation strategies. Based on our graph showing how population has exploded during the Industrial Age, you may assume that it will continue to increase dramatically with no end in sight. Recall that world population began to grow rapidly in the 1800s. At this time death rates began to fall rapidly with advances in public health worldwide. Some of the most important factors were improved sanitation, basic medical care, and nutrition; later the trend was reinforced by immunization and the use of antibiotics. This health-driven reduction in death rates started in western Europe, North America, and other industrialized nations. Today, all nations have benefited to some degree from these trends; total longevity is increasing worldwide and rates of infant and child mortality continue to fall. Death rates are low and headed lower. Does this mean populations are growing equally fast everywhere? Fertility (which corresponds to the birth rate) is the main factor that determines modern and future rates of population growth. Since about 1900, birth rates have declined in industrialized, high-income nations. Why? Education and economic opportunity for women, access to contraception, and changing economic pressures have all contributed to reduced fertility in these countries. With low rates of death and birth, populations are stable or even declining in many of the world’s most affluent nations. In less developed low- and middle-income nations, fertility rates are still high enough to generate rapid population growth. In addition, these countries have populations with many young people just now entering reproductive age. Therefore the populations of these nations will continue to grow rapidly for years into the future. Overall, the global population will continue to increase for at least a few decades, and this increase will be driven mainly by growth in the low- and middle-income nations of Africa and Asia. Experts predict that fertility will continue to fall in most nations as they develop economically, as contraception becomes more available, and as educational and economic opportunities for women improve. If so, the world population is projected to peak at around 9 to 11 billion in 2050 and begin to decline thereafter. As their populations continue to expand, trends and projections indicate that low- and middle-income nations will also continue to increase in their affluence. Automobiles, electronic gadgets, and household conveniences like air conditioning and indoor plumbing are likely to reach more and more people in populous and fast-growing economies like those of Brazil, India, and China. What does this mean for the global environment? By 2050, projections suggest that the world’s humans may use a total of 140 billion tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year—three times the current consumption rate (United Nations Environmental Programme, International Resource Panel, 2011). Will Earth be able to sustain these high levels of consumption spread across a population of 9 to 11 billion people? Much will depend on the next factor, technology. After high standards of living have been achieved, societies have tended to shift toward use of lower-impact and greener technologies. Take, for example, the use of fossil fuels. Within the United States and Europe several trends such as greater efficiency and a shift toward renewable and nuclear power have led to reduced emissions of carbon dioxide per dollar of goods and services generated. Carbon dioxide emissions per dollar of national economic activity in China, the United States, and France in 2009. For each unit of economic activity, China generated four times as much carbon dioxide than did France. China: 0.81 kg CO2 / $ GDP U.S.A.: 0.41 kg CO2 / $ GDP France: 0.18 kg CO2 / $ GDP Heavy reliance on coal, older and less efficient industrial and consumer technology Continued primary reliance on fossil fuels, newer and more efficient technology Strong shift toward nuclear power, more energy-efficient technology Several important low-impact technologies are currently in various stages of development. Some examples include renewable electric power (mainly solar and wind power), use of plant and algal biomass as a source of renewable fuel, and improvements in the sustainability of appliances and buildings. In many industries, improvements are occurring gradually through better management practices that reduce waste output, reduce energy and resource use, and reduce harm to the environment. These efforts are often supported by certification systems and ecolabels that help consumers choose lower-impact products. Examples include the Forest Stewardship Council for sustainable forest products, the Marine Stewardship Council for sustainable seafood, LEED certification for sustainable buildings, and the U.S. EPA Energy Star and Water Sense labels for energy- and water-efficient appliances. If these trends continue and spread globally, humanity may be able to limit some of its future environmental impacts through technological progress. However, new and more sustainable green technologies are not guaranteed to succeed. They are usually developed first in industrialized nations and their use may be limited by cost. Ultimately, green technologies will reduce our collective environmental impact only if they are widely used. To have a large effect, they must be adopted widely in industrialized nations and then quickly transferred to the fast-growing and populous nations of Asia and Africa. Major public and private investments may be needed to meet this goal. Climate change is the most troubling environmental impact of humanity because of the global and potentially severe nature of its effects. How can humans tackle such a big and complex problem? Efforts to deal with global climate change can be placed in two broad categories: mitigation and adaptation. Climate change mitigation is the effort to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or increase the rate at which they are removed from the air, thereby slowing the pace and reducing the severity of climate change. Some of the actions that could be taken to accomplish this include energy conservation, widespread adoption of renewable energy technologies, increased use of nuclear power, switching from coal to natural gas, and capture and storage of CO2 from coal-burning power plants. We can also work to increase the extent and growth of carbon-absorbing forests. Changes to agriculture and waste disposal practices could help reduce emissions of methane and nitrous oxides. At a fundamental level, efforts to slow population growth may mitigate climate change simply by reducing population growth, which is a key underlying factor driving all human impacts on the environment. Changes to mitigate climate change can be costly. Deciding whether to make such changes requires detailed scientific analysis. How much will a given action help to reduce climate change? What other costs and benefits will be generated? Unfortunately, there is a limit to what we can reasonably expect to achieve with mitigation. Some degree of climate warming has already occurred. Experts agree that even with our best efforts to mitigate growth in greenhouse gas emissions, these gases will continue to build up in the atmosphere and will continue to modify climate for many decades. Climate change adaptation is the effort to make humans and ecosystems less vulnerable to the effects of ongoing and future climate change. To reduce the consequences of climate change, we can develop crops that are better adapted to a warmer and drier world; improve irrigation systems to compensate for expected droughts; protect coasts from rising sea levels with sea walls or with buffer zones of natural vegetation; improve emergency response systems and preparedness; and deliberately move people, plants, and other species to areas where the climate is likely to be more tolerable in the future. Scientific assessments help to predict future changes and test the effectiveness of adaptation strategies.   Introduction to Human Impact In the past, the science of ecology focused on nonhuman species. Rather than studying cities or farms, ecologists have worked in “wild” places like forests, mountain streams, coral reefs, and grasslands. Ecologists sought to unravel how plants and animals in these places interacted with each other. The activities of humans were viewed as a separate issue, outside the normal set of processes at work in “natural” communities and ecosystems. Today, however, ecologists recognize that humans have an influence on all communities and ecosystems. In some ways, we are simply participants in and members of ecosystems. Like other animals, we feed on the bodies of plants and other animals; excrete gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes; and disturb small areas of soil when we travel across the landscape on foot. In most of our activities, however, humans have impacts that go far beyond those of other animal species. What makes us different? Population size. As we will discuss in this unit, Earth’s total human population now exceeds 7 billion. Our total biomass is far greater than that of all wild large animals (megafauna) combined, as is the biomass of our domestic animals. We require huge volumes of food and water simply to meet our most basic needs. Affluence and consumption levels. Today, over a billion humans live in high-income nations where most citizens enjoy a standard of living that goes far beyond basic nutrition. Many of us live in sturdy temperature-controlled buildings and have indoor plumbing, electric lights, washing machines, refrigerators, electronic gadgets, and automobiles. These items all require resources and generate wastes in their production, use, and disposal. High-impact technologies. Until about 1800, most human activities were accomplished by the labor of humans and domestic animals. Biodegradable materials were used. Impacts on ecosystems took a long time to develop and much of the damage was repaired through natural processes. Today, humans have harnessed outside energy sources (fossil fuels, explosives, wind and flowing water, nuclear energy, and the like) to perform work at an unprecedented scale. Humans now can rapidly transform landscapes and intervene in basic natural processes. Advanced technologies have also produced persistent (nonbiodegradable) chemical toxins and radioactive wastes. Each of the above factors promotes greater environmental impact if all other factors are held equal. In real societies, however, all three factors change over time and influence each other. This leads to some surprising patterns of impact. For example, some environmental conditions are better in high-income nations than in lower-income countries. In general, the air and water are cleaner, industries are better-regulated, and forests are less heavily exploited in higher-income nations. We can account for this in two ways. First, goods can be consumed in one place but generate their impacts elsewhere. With global trade, many of the impacts of consumption occur in developing nations where goods are produced, dumped, or recycled. Second, more advanced technology is not always more disruptive; technology can also be developed to reduce impact. Examples of advanced low-impact technologies include renewable energy technologies (solar panels, windmill generators), biodegradable plastics, smokestack “scrubbers” that remove pollutants from power plant emissions, and energy-efficient appliances and buildings. Although there are many competing priorities, environmental concerns have become more prominent in our society since the 1970s. Corporations have adopted environmental goals as part of their mission statements. Nonprofit groups advocate for the environment. Government programs promote specific environmental goals. We use buzzwords like “sustainability” and “stewardship.” Products and ideas are marketed as being “ecosafe,” “earth-friendly,” or “green.” As a consumer, voter, employee, or business leader, you have some control over environmental impact in your daily decisions. You should have a clear sense for what sustainability really means. Sustainable technologies meet human needs—economic and social—and preserve the productivity or biodiversity of ecosystems over a long period of time. In any given case, different options may maximize individual economic benefit, public welfare, or environmental integrity. The most sustainable choice often involves finding a compromise among these competing priorities. One step toward sustainability is the careful use of renewable resources: those that are replenished quickly enough to replace what we consume. Resources are renewed through growth or other ongoing processes. Most products of plants and animals are potentially renewable, so long as we do not consume them too quickly. Many physical processes (solar energy input, river flow, tidal flow, wind, flow of heat from Earth’s interior) also occur at a high and sustained rate.Nonrenewable resources, by contrast, are replenished very slowly. Such a resource can be thought of as a fixed stock. Once depleted, a nonrenewable resource cannot be replaced in useful quantities. Most mineral resources and fossil fuels are nonrenewable. Over time, if humans continue to use these resources they will become increasingly scarce. A second factor in sustainability involves the disposal or ultimate fate of materials and wastes we produce. Biodegradable materials are more sustainable over time because natural decomposition processes will break them down and recycle any nutrients they contain. Nonbiodegradable materials tend to accumulate over time and may cause negative environmental impacts. Some examples include plastics and persistent toxic chemicals. Renewable resources can be used in a sustainable way so long as the rate of use does not exceed the rate of renewal. Nonrenewable resources cannot be used indefinitely and technologies that rely heavily on them are unsustainable. In the table below we summarize several examples of renewable and nonrenewable resources. Renewable Nonrenewable Foods produced from plants, animals, and other living organisms. Grains, nuts, vegetable oils, fish, poultry, meat, dairy products, vegetables, fruits, etc. Petrochemicals produced from oil and/or natural gas. Examples include plastics, nylon, polyester, most pesticides, many food additives, adhesives, solvents, and much more. Fertilizers made from animal manure, animal byproducts, and composted plant wastes. Artificial fertilizers made using natural gas, mined phosphate rock, and mined potash (a source of potassium). Construction and industrial materials from living plants, including wood, paper, rayon cloth, plant-based plastics, natural rubber, bark mulch, and medicinal compounds. Metal, cement, and glass, all of which are made using mined materials and are usually produced with a high input of fossil fuel energy. Fuels produced from plants or plant-derived by-products such as sawdust or crop wastes. Power supplied by human labor or livestock. Electrical energy produced from sunlight, tides, river flows, wind, and geothermal heat. Fuels derived from coal, oil, or natural gas. Coal and natural gas are used directly; oil is refined to create products like gasoline and jet fuel along with many petrochemicals. Over time, human activities may have permanent negative effects on the environment’s capacity to support life or provide resources to future generations. Ultimately the degree and nature of our impact will depend on how population size, affluence levels, and technologies change in the future. We will explore these issues in more depth in this module. In the next page, we will examine the history of the global human population, tracing some of the factors that have enabled our dramatic expansion in numbers and in impact.   Human Effects on Biodiversity From earliest childhood, humans are fascinated by the diversity of life. Tourists flock to African savannas, coral reefs, and tropical rain forests, cameras at the ready. Kids’ picture books are populated with bright, beautiful, and bizarre animal drawings. Television nature programs, zoos, botanical gardens, and natural history museums provide an up-close look at the real thing. At some level each of us feels interested in, inspired by, or connected to nature in some form. And we are saddened to learn that much of this diversity is threatened by human activity. What is at stake? What has been lost? What can we do to protect what’s left? What is biodiversity and Why Does it Matter? Biodiversity is simply the diversity of life in an area. As seen in the photo below, it can be measured at a number of different levels. Genetic diversity is the inherited variation among individuals within a single species or population. It provides the raw material for evolution. Species richness is the number of different species within a community. Ecosystem diversity is the variety of distinct ecosystem types (habitats) within a region. In some places a wide array of habitats can form a diverse patchwork of life. This scene in Romania illustrates diversity at several different levels. Within one species of flower there is genetic diversity. Within the meadow community there is a rich blend of species. At the landscape level there is a patchwork of distinct ecosystem types (grassland and forest). Many central European meadows have very high plant species diversityand are maintained by grazing and/or mowing. By Joadl (Botzia) CC-BY-SA-3.0 Earth is home to a diverse and vibrant riot of life. Over the past 400 years, biologists have discovered, described, and named over 1.3 million species of animals, plants, fungi, protists, and prokaryotes. Millions more exist but have not yet been described. Biodiversity is of great value to humans. Functioning natural ecosystems supply us with countless benefits, many of which we take for granted. When was the last time you paid—or even expressed thanks—for oxygen? Some of the most important benefits provided by ecosystems and by specific wild species within them include: Removal of excess nutrients, pathogens, and organic waste from sewage. Addition of oxygen and removal of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Physical protection of soils, unstable slopes, and coastlines by plants. Pollination of crops by wild animals including insects. Recreational opportunities for wildlife viewing, hunting, angling, and more. Products like lumber, fish, shellfish, fruits, mushrooms, latex for rubber, etc. Specific biochemicals that can be developed to produce pharmaceuticals and other valuable new products. Threats to Biodiversity As a whole, biodiversity may seem limitless. But when we look at specific communities and species, we can see evidence to the contrary. Biodiversity is reduced when populations are eliminated from local communities (local extinction). Local extinctions can severely disrupt ecological communities and may even lead to additional extinctions. This is particularly likely if keystone species are lost, as you learned in the community ecology module. Over time, local extinctions can lead to the loss of an entire species when the last reproducing group dies out (global extinction). Global extinction is irreversible: When a species goes extinct, we lose all future opportunities to learn from it, use it, and appreciate it. Human activities have affected biodiversity for thousands of years. In fact, human hunting is one probable cause for the extinction of many large animal species that ended about 10,000 years ago. We may never know for sure if humans caused the demise of the woolly mammoth or the saber-toothed tiger, but we can be quite sure that our activities severely threaten many species today. Tracking and clarifying this problem is a major challenge for ecologists. Below is a diagram showing how many species are threatened (or already extinct) among some well-studied groups of plants and animals. Numbers of species in various status categories in 2010. Of the groups assessed, amphibians had the highest number of species that are threatened to some degree. High fractions of threatened species were found among tropical reef-building corals and among cycads, a group of tropical trees. Source: Global Biodiversity Outlook 3.0, Convention on Biological Diversity. Data from assessments by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, a global coalition of scientists and nonprofit organizations. By Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). (Figure 4) Public Domain Extinction is a naturally occurring process; thousands of species known only from fossils attest to that fact. However, current rates of endangerment and extinction are much faster than those estimated from a study of the fossil record. Today, the vast majority of extinctions can be clearly attributed to the environmental impacts generated by human activities. The major causes of extinction can be categorized as follows: Habitat loss. Human activities destroy or change habitat so that it no longer supports the growth and reproduction of a species. This is widely acknowledged as the most important direct threat to biodiversity worldwide. Habitats that have been profoundly changed by human activities include forests (clearing), grasslands (plowing and overgrazing), rivers (damming), and wetlands (draining). Introduced species. Humans move species out of their natural range and into a new area. The new species prey upon, compete with, change habitat for, or otherwise harm native species, resulting in their extinction. This is a particularly important threat on islands and other isolated habitats, where introduced predators may decimate native prey species that are not adapted to their presence. Overharvesting. Human harvesting—hunting, fishing, logging, gathering, and so on—removes individuals more quickly than they can be replaced by natural reproduction. This was historically a major threat in North America and Europe, but today most fish and wildlife resources are fairly well-protected. Open ocean fisheries and tropical mammals, by contrast, are heavily impacted by human harvesting today. For example, an estimated 80% of the world’s major ocean fisheries were fully exploited, overexploited, depleted, or recovering from depletion in 2005. Animal Products and the Pet Trade. Although sport hunting and fishing are well-regulated (especially in North America and Europe), many wildlife species are under increasing pressure from those collecting animals for pets and for their shells, tusks, and other body parts. Such diverse wildlife species such as Black Bears in the US and Geckos in Asia are killed in large numbers to make folk medicines in some countries, especially in Asia. In addition, the high economic value of tusks from Elephants and Horns from Rhinos has led to the slaughter of large numbers of these mammals in Africa, leaving some populations vulnerable to extinction. Pollution. Wastes generated by human activities change habitat conditions or threaten the health of organisms directly. Nutrient pollution, for example, is a global problem that harms the diversity of aquatic and some terrestrial communities. Pollution of the atmosphere by greenhouse gases generates climate change, a problem so complex and severe that it is often counted as a separate threat category. In summary, species and communities worldwide face many threats. Very often, a single species will be affected by multiple factors. In most cases, humans do not set out to deliberately eradicate species. Instead, we cause extinction inadvertently when our actions generate unexpected consequences. In the past, humans were often unaware of the effects of their actions or did not try to change course until it was too late. Today, with advances in technology and ecological science, we can do much better. We have begun to effectively regulate or prohibit harvesting, reduce some forms of pollution, protect remaining habitats, and control introduced species. As a result, the status of many populations in high-income nations or in priority areas is improving. In the United States, several species, including the American beaver, the American bison, and the gray wolf, have been protected from overharvesting and have recovered and returned to much of their former range. The bald eagle and peregrine falcon were nearly driven extinct by the pesticide DDT and related compounds that entered food chains, concentrated in the birds, and impaired their introduction. Both species have recovered strongly since DDT was banned for use in the U.S. in 1972. As seen in the graph below, these and similar cases have led to an overall increase in many vertebrate animal populations within high-income nations in North America, Europe, Australia, and Japan since 1970. The Living Planet Index is based on population sizes of vertebrate species that are monitored over time. Values represent the change in average population sizes over time. Positive values indicate that populations have increased; negative values indicate population declines relative to the 1970 baseline. Since 1970, the Living Planet Index shows slight progress in high-income nations and biodiversity declines elsewhere. By Living Planet Report 2012. By WWF (Living reports) Public Domain Much of the world’s remaining biodiversity is in the tropics within low- and moderate-income nations. Here, the biodiversity situation remains much more troubling. Resources for conservation efforts are limited and high rates of human population growth continue to drive habitat destruction and overharvesting in many of these nations. Poaching (illegal hunting), forest destruction, poorly regulated mining, overfishing, and destructive farming and livestock grazing practices are all contributing to biodiversity decline that threatens thousands of unique and irreplaceable species. On the positive side, conservationists are working very hard to protect wild habitats within “biodiversity hotspots” that harbor a large diversity of species. Nongovernmental organizations from high-income nations are spearheading these efforts. Through investments and education, they are working with communities to develop sustainable businesses that provide income while protecting the integrity of local ecosystems. To Learn More / References: Global Biodiversity Outlook 3.0 Living Planet Report 2012 Biodiversity is simply the diversity of life in an area. As seen in the photo below, it can be measured at a number of different levels. Genetic diversity is the inherited variation among individuals within a single species or population. It provides the raw material for evolution. Species richness is the number of different species within a community. Ecosystem diversity is the variety of distinct ecosystem types (habitats) within a region. In some places a wide array of habitats can form a diverse patchwork of life. This scene in Romania illustrates diversity at several different levels. Within one species of flower there is genetic diversity. Within the meadow community there is a rich blend of species. At the landscape level there is a patchwork of distinct ecosystem types (grassland and forest). Many central European meadows have very high plant species diversityand are maintained by grazing and/or mowing. By Joadl (Botzia) CC-BY-SA-3.0 Earth is home to a diverse and vibrant riot of life. Over the past 400 years, biologists have discovered, described, and named over 1.3 million species of animals, plants, fungi, protists, and prokaryotes. Millions more exist but have not yet been described. Biodiversity is of great value to humans. Functioning natural ecosystems supply us with countless benefits, many of which we take for granted. When was the last time you paid—or even expressed thanks—for oxygen? Some of the most important benefits provided by ecosystems and by specific wild species within them include: Removal of excess nutrients, pathogens, and organic waste from sewage. Addition of oxygen and removal of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Physical protection of soils, unstable slopes, and coastlines by plants. Pollination of crops by wild animals including insects. Recreational opportunities for wildlife viewing, hunting, angling, and more. Products like lumber, fish, shellfish, fruits, mushrooms, latex for rubber, etc. Specific biochemicals that can be developed to produce pharmaceuticals and other valuable new products. As a whole, biodiversity may seem limitless. But when we look at specific communities and species, we can see evidence to the contrary. Biodiversity is reduced when populations are eliminated from local communities (local extinction). Local extinctions can severely disrupt ecological communities and may even lead to additional extinctions. This is particularly likely if keystone species are lost, as you learned in the community ecology module. Over time, local extinctions can lead to the loss of an entire species when the last reproducing group dies out (global extinction). Global extinction is irreversible: When a species goes extinct, we lose all future opportunities to learn from it, use it, and appreciate it. Human activities have affected biodiversity for thousands of years. In fact, human hunting is one probable cause for the extinction of many large animal species that ended about 10,000 years ago. We may never know for sure if humans caused the demise of the woolly mammoth or the saber-toothed tiger, but we can be quite sure that our activities severely threaten many species today. Tracking and clarifying this problem is a major challenge for ecologists. Below is a diagram showing how many species are threatened (or already extinct) among some well-studied groups of plants and animals. Numbers of species in various status categories in 2010. Of the groups assessed, amphibians had the highest number of species that are threatened to some degree. High fractions of threatened species were found among tropical reef-building corals and among cycads, a group of tropical trees. Source: Global Biodiversity Outlook 3.0, Convention on Biological Diversity. Data from assessments by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, a global coalition of scientists and nonprofit organizations. By Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). (Figure 4) Public Domain Extinction is a naturally occurring process; thousands of species known only from fossils attest to that fact. However, current rates of endangerment and extinction are much faster than those estimated from a study of the fossil record. Today, the vast majority of extinctions can be clearly attributed to the environmental impacts generated by human activities. The major causes of extinction can be categorized as follows: Habitat loss. Human activities destroy or change habitat so that it no longer supports the growth and reproduction of a species. This is widely acknowledged as the most important direct threat to biodiversity worldwide. Habitats that have been profoundly changed by human activities include forests (clearing), grasslands (plowing and overgrazing), rivers (damming), and wetlands (draining). Introduced species. Humans move species out of their natural range and into a new area. The new species prey upon, compete with, change habitat for, or otherwise harm native species, resulting in their extinction. This is a particularly important threat on islands and other isolated habitats, where introduced predators may decimate native prey species that are not adapted to their presence. Overharvesting. Human harvesting—hunting, fishing, logging, gathering, and so on—removes individuals more quickly than they can be replaced by natural reproduction. This was historically a major threat in North America and Europe, but today most fish and wildlife resources are fairly well-protected. Open ocean fisheries and tropical mammals, by contrast, are heavily impacted by human harvesting today. For example, an estimated 80% of the world’s major ocean fisheries were fully exploited, overexploited, depleted, or recovering from depletion in 2005. Animal Products and the Pet Trade. Although sport hunting and fishing are well-regulated (especially in North America and Europe), many wildlife species are under increasing pressure from those collecting animals for pets and for their shells, tusks, and other body parts. Such diverse wildlife species such as Black Bears in the US and Geckos in Asia are killed in large numbers to make folk medicines in some countries, especially in Asia. In addition, the high economic value of tusks from Elephants and Horns from Rhinos has led to the slaughter of large numbers of these mammals in Africa, leaving some populations vulnerable to extinction. Pollution. Wastes generated by human activities change habitat conditions or threaten the health of organisms directly. Nutrient pollution, for example, is a global problem that harms the diversity of aquatic and some terrestrial communities. Pollution of the atmosphere by greenhouse gases generates climate change, a problem so complex and severe that it is often counted as a separate threat category.   Impacts on Ecosystems and Global Climate Change In this page we will focus on human effects on the atmosphere and climate as a chief example of our ecosystem-level impacts. You have probably heard and learned about global warming and global climate change. Through this course we aim to help you improve your knowledge about the science behind this issue and clear up any misconceptions you may have about it. A continuing increase in Earth’s ocean and land surface temperatures since the early 1900s is known as global warming. The phrase “global warming” may leave the false impression that the Earth simply gets a bit cozier over time as this process continues. Earth’s climate is a complex system. As the climate warms, temperatures are not evenly adjusted upward by a fixed number of degrees across seasons and locations. Instead, we are also seeing many dramatic weather anomalies in recent decades, including strong hurricanes and tornadoes, protracted droughts, unusually severe heat waves, and even record snowfalls. Instead of global warming, some like to say we are experiencing “global weirding.” Anthropogenic global climate change is a more appropriate description of how climate is responding to human activities on a global scale. It is the full range of climatic disruptions that have occurred as a probable result of human alteration of the atmosphere. In other words, it is recent climate warming—and weirdness—that is probably caused by humans. The case for global climate change can be summarized as follows: Greenhouse gases are known to slow the escape of heat from Earth, and in this way they warm the climate through a mechanism called the greenhouse effect. Humans have dramatically increased levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The climate has warmed in parallel with and as a result of these changes in the atmosphere. Let’s look at some of this theory and evidence, beginning by thinking about how the Earth’s overall temperature is determined. Earth’s Energy Budget and the Greenhouse Effect Energy enters the Earth system—its land, water, and air—as sunlight. Some of the light is reflected back into space, but much of it is absorbed by land and water. When materials absorb light, they warm up. Over time, they release energy as heat, also known as infrared radiation. Eventually, all of the energy that entered as sunlight escapes back into space as infrared radiation. Energy that enters the Earth system as light is balanced by energy that exits as heat. If the Earth had no atmosphere, heat would escape very rapidly. The Earth’s night-time surface temperatures would be like those on the moon: −153° Celsius, −243° Fahrenheit. Below is a diagram showing what Earth’s energy balance might look like if there were no clouds to reflect light and no gases that could interfere with heat’s escape. Hypothetical energy budget for Earth with no clouds (which reflect 20% of incoming solar radiation) and with no greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Heat radiation would not be delayed on its trip to space, and Earth’s surface would have low and very quickly changing temperatures. By NASA. Public Domain Lucky for us, Earth has an atmosphere comprising gases that make our atmosphere act something like an insulating blanket. The atmosphere is a mixture of many different gases that are held close to Earth’s surface by gravity. The two most abundant gases in the atmosphere are N2,or nitrogen gas (78% of air by volume), and O2, or oxygen gas (21%). These gases are transparent to light and to heat radiation; that is, they do not interfere with sunlight energy coming into Earth or with the heat radiating back into space. Several much less abundant gases, however, do have a major effect on Earth’s energy budget. These greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat waves (infrared radiation). Three important greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4). Much of the heat (infrared) radiation that leaves Earth’s surface is absorbed by greenhouse gases and reemitted back toward Earth. As a result, these gases retain heat in the atmosphere. Instead of escaping immediately to space, heat is delayed near the Earth’s surface and continues to warm our atmosphere. Energy budget for Earth with its current atmosphere. Much of the incoming sunlight is reflected by Earth’s surface (about 10%) and clouds (about 20%). The rest of the energy (70%) is absorbed by materials in the air, land, and water and is then reemitted as heat. Only a small fraction of the emitted heat (about 12% of the total incoming sunlight energy) escapes directly. The rest is absorbed by greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and reemitted. This energy remains close to the Earth’s surface for a longer period of time, thereby maintaining a warmer and more stable climate. Data derived from two publications in 2009 summarizing 10 years’ worth of data and presented by NASA. Public Domain As you just learned, greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere retain heat and keep surface temperatures warm and relatively steady over time. This phenomenon is called the greenhouse effect. It is a natural part of the Earth’s climate system and helps make our planet livable. Currently, however, the greenhouse effect is strengthened by a high and increasing level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Evidence indicates that human activity is responsible for this increase. Human activities have increased levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. In terms of its total effect on climate, the most significant greenhouse gas is carbon dioxide. As of May 2012, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is about 397 ppm (parts per million). How does this compare to past levels? Today’s level is 26% higher than the level in 1958; levels have been increasing steadily since that time based on monthly measurements that have been taken at Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii and at many other locations worldwide. Increase in carbon dioxide at Mauna Loa Observatory in Hawaii since from 1958 to June 2012. By Dr. Pieter Tans, NOAA/ESRL Full Mauna Loa CO2 record Public Domain. The current level is almost twice as high as the long term average over the past several hundred thousand years. These data come from analysis of bubbles of air trapped in ice. Glacial ice has annual layers and can be dated, allowing researchers to look back in time as they drill deeper into the ice. The longest records now come from ice cores extending over 3 km deep into an Antarctic glacier. Throughout the 800,000-year period of record, CO2 levels never exceeded 300 ppm and were typically around 220 ppm. The graph above shows carbon dioxide data from an ice core extending 400,000 years into the past; more recent data double that time span but show a similar pattern. Carbon dioxide has fluctuated between about 170 ppm and 300 ppm; at no point did it approach the current level of nearly 400 ppm. By NOAA evidence CO2 Public Domain The situation is similar for other greenhouse gases including methane and nitrous oxide, each of which has increased dramatically since about 1900. Levels of three important greenhouse gases have all increased greatly starting at around 1900. Values are in parts per million (ppm) or parts per billion (ppb) which indicates the number of molecules of each gas in a million or billion molecules of mixed air. By U.S. Global Change Research Program. (Greenhouse Gases) Public Domain Clearly, greenhouse gases are increasing. And you already know that human population and impact have increased greatly through the Industrial Age, so it is natural to suspect that human activities are the cause of recent changes in atmospheric gases. Many lines of evidence confirm this. Specific human activities and practices are known to emit greenhouse gases and are also known to have increased in step with rising greenhouse gas concentrations. CO2: burning of fossil fuels, deforestation. Burning of coal, oil, and natural gas transfers carbon from long-term storage in the Earth’s crust and adds CO2 directly to the air. Deforestation reduces the overall rate of photosynthesis and plant growth. It also returns carbon stored in wood and soil to the atmosphere when wood is burned or when soils are warmed up, encouraging decomposition. Methane (CH4): fossil fuel production and transport, rice paddy agriculture, ruminant livestock, landfilling of garbage, sewage treatment. Methane-releasing decomposers (prokaryotes in the domain Archaea) thrive under wet, low-oxygen conditions. Humans create methane emissions by favoring the activity of these decomposers. Ruminant livestock—cattle, goats, and so on—have this type of prokaryotes in their stomachs and release methane as flatulence. Methane is also emitted when natural gas escapes from wells or pipelines. In the future climate change itself may also lead to big methane releases due to melting of permafrost and other releases from long-term storage. Nitrous oxide (N2O): agriculture, exhaust from internal combustion engines. Humans add extra nitrous oxide (N2O) to the air through use of artificial fertilizers and other agricultural practices. Nitrous oxide is also produced when fuels or biomass are burned; high temperatures encourage a reaction between N2 and O2 gases in the air. Therefore the exhaust from internal combustion engines is a source of nitrous oxide. Many ongoing natural processes also influence levels of greenhouse gases, but these processes have not changed in a way that can account for the extra CO2 in the air. Typically natural processes cancel each other out; they are part of cycle that is more or less in balance. Human activities, by contrast, have a history of rapid increase that tracks very closely with the observed increase in the air’s greenhouse gas levels over the past century. Global human carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels and from cement production. Direct emissions have increased rapidly since 1950 in step with increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide. Graph by Mak Thorpe using data from the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center. By Mak Thorpe. (Global Carbon Emissions) CC-BY-SA The Climate has warmed in association with increased greenhouse gas levels. As previously discussed, greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat. There is a clear theoretical basis for the idea that increases in greenhouse gas levels should warm the climate. There is also an abundance of direct evidence that climate has warmed in association with higher concentrations of greenhouse gases over time. Coinciding with the observed increase in greenhouse gases, scientists have documented substantial increases in the average temperatures of Earth’s air and oceans, particularly since about 1950. Carbon dioxide and temperature in the Industrial Age. As greenhouse gas concentrations have increased (shown here: carbon dioxide, the most important greenhouse gas), average global temperature levels have also risen. By U.S. Global Change Research Program Global Climate Change 4 Public Domain Many other ongoing natural processes have an influence on the climate. Why do scientists think greenhouse gas increases are the factor driving the recent warming? Again, natural processes have not changed in a way that can explain the observed warming of the climate. For example, the sun’s energy output changes over time, and this can influence our climate. But these changes cannot account for recent global warming. In fact, the sun’s energy output was considerably lower than normal from 2005 to 2010, but the climate continued to warm over that period. Taken together, thousands of observations and trends provide evidence for global climate change and indicate some of its consequences for life on planet Earth. The following are a few of the many strong indicators of change: Warm weather and ocean temperatures. In a record of weather and ocean temperature data stretching back to 1900, the top five warmest years were 2005, 2010, 1998, 2003, and 2002. Studies based on weather stations and ocean temperature measurements around the world have repeatedly found a trend of increasing temperatures since about 1900 with steep increases since around 1970. The data for land weather stations are summarized in the graph below. As average temperatures have increased, so has the frequency of extreme heat waves. These are particularly dangerous in low-income nations like India, where people lack air conditioning. Average temperatures from long term weather records since 1800 show an increasing trend, particularly since the 1970s. In this graph, data from a number of different studies are compared. The black line (labeled “Berkeley”) is based on 1.6 billion records from 39,000 different weather stations and 16 different data archives. The study was led by a “climate skeptic” who processed the data to correct for biases and errors he had thought were leading to false conclusions in other analyses. Yet the results paralleled those of other studies by NASA, NOAA, HadCRU, indicating an increase of about 0.9° Celsius since the 1950s. By Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature project. Temperature graph Public Domain Sea level rise. The average sea level has increased by an estimated 0.2 m since 1900, both because the ocean water is expanding as it warms and because glaciers on land are melting. Sea level rise is expected to continue and accelerate with continued warming of the climate. Particularly when coupled with more intense storms, increasing sea levels threaten human settlements and natural ecosystems in low-lying coastal areas worldwide. Ice and permafrost melting. The extent and thickness of floating sea ice in the Arctic has declined in recent decades. Based on satellite data, the area covered by thick multiyear ice decreased by about half between 1980 and 2012. A majority of mountain glaciers are also shrinking in thickness and area over time. Perpetually frozen soils (permafrost) have been melting to increasing depths each summer in the Arctic. Such changes have many implications. Sea ice is important to the ecology of polar bears and other arctic animals; it acts as a platform for travel and foraging. Mountain glaciers supply summer melt water to major river systems in Asia and elsewhere; glacier retreat may reduce the reliability of water supplies for irrigation and other uses. And melting of permafrost leads to landslides and releases additional greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. A comparison showing how Pederson Glacier in Alaska has retreated since 1920; land and vegetation have also filled in what was previously a lagoon habitat. By NOAA Pederson Glacier Public domain Increased intensity or duration of drought. Climate change is likely to reduce rainfall in some regions. Even if rainfall does not decline, warmer temperatures lead directly to drier soils and lower water levels by speeding up evaporation and boosting the rate at which plants use water. Record-breaking droughts and wildfire seasons are some indicators that this effect is already under way in some regions. Droughts threaten human well-being by limiting crop production and by reducing the availability of water for municipal use, navigation, power generation, and recreation. Changes in species distributions. Many species’ geographic ranges are shifting, following climate conditions toward historically cooler areas as their existing habitats get warmer. Species are shifting toward the poles: further north in the Northern Hemisphere and further south in the Southern Hemisphere. In mountainous regions, species’ distributions are shifting upward to higher elevations. Range shifts may lead to endangerment of species, loss of species that provide economic resources, and northward spread of tropical pathogens and their vectors (particularly mosquitoes). Changes in seasonal patterns of life. As the climate warms, springtime events—leaf emergence and flowering, nesting and migration of birds, etc.—are occurring at earlier dates than in the past. A 2003 study reviewed data from studies on 172 different species of plants, birds, butterflies, and amphibians and found that springtime events had shifted toward earlier dates by an average of 2.3 days per ten years; most of the studies extended over a period of about 50 years. Such shifts can disrupt community interactions, particularly since some species respond more quickly than others to changes in climate. Studies have found that some birds arrive at summer breeding grounds only to find that their prey (insects) have already completed their life cycles. Similarly, some butterfly species are in trouble because their food plants are developing tough leaves and beginning to wither earlier in the season, before the caterpillars have hatched. To learn more about how butterflies are responding to climate changes view the video in the “Changing Planet” series by NBC Learn on “ The Adaption of Butterflies .” Energy enters the Earth system—its land, water, and air—as sunlight. Some of the light is reflected back into space, but much of it is absorbed by land and water. When materials absorb light, they warm up. Over time, they release energy as heat, also known as infrared radiation. Eventually, all of the energy that entered as sunlight escapes back into space as infrared radiation. Energy that enters the Earth system as light is balanced by energy that exits as heat. If the Earth had no atmosphere, heat would escape very rapidly. The Earth’s night-time surface temperatures would be like those on the moon: −153° Celsius, −243° Fahrenheit. Below is a diagram showing what Earth’s energy balance might look like if there were no clouds to reflect light and no gases that could interfere with heat’s escape. Hypothetical energy budget for Earth with no clouds (which reflect 20% of incoming solar radiation) and with no greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Heat radiation would not be delayed on its trip to space, and Earth’s surface would have low and very quickly changing temperatures. By NASA. Public Domain Lucky for us, Earth has an atmosphere comprising gases that make our atmosphere act something like an insulating blanket. The atmosphere is a mixture of many different gases that are held close to Earth’s surface by gravity. The two most abundant gases in the atmosphere are N2,or nitrogen gas (78% of air by volume), and O2, or oxygen gas (21%). These gases are transparent to light and to heat radiation; that is, they do not interfere with sunlight energy coming into Earth or with the heat radiating back into space. Several much less abundant gases, however, do have a major effect on Earth’s energy budget. These greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat waves (infrared radiation). Three important greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4). Much of the heat (infrared) radiation that leaves Earth’s surface is absorbed by greenhouse gases and reemitted back toward Earth. As a result, these gases retain heat in the atmosphere. Instead of escaping immediately to space, heat is delayed near the Earth’s surface and continues to warm our atmosphere. Energy budget for Earth with its current atmosphere. Much of the incoming sunlight is reflected by Earth’s surface (about 10%) and clouds (about 20%). The rest of the energy (70%) is absorbed by materials in the air, land, and water and is then reemitted as heat. Only a small fraction of the emitted heat (about 12% of the total incoming sunlight energy) escapes directly. The rest is absorbed by greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and reemitted. This energy remains close to the Earth’s surface for a longer period of time, thereby maintaining a warmer and more stable climate. Data derived from two publications in 2009 summarizing 10 years’ worth of data and presented by NASA. Public Domain As you just learned, greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere retain heat and keep surface temperatures warm and relatively steady over time. This phenomenon is called the greenhouse effect. It is a natural part of the Earth’s climate system and helps make our planet livable. Currently, however, the greenhouse effect is strengthened by a high and increasing level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Evidence indicates that human activity is responsible for this increase. In terms of its total effect on climate, the most significant greenhouse gas is carbon dioxide. As of May 2012, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is about 397 ppm (parts per million). How does this compare to past levels? Today’s level is 26% higher than the level in 1958; levels have been increasing steadily since that time based on monthly measurements that have been taken at Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii and at many other locations worldwide. Increase in carbon dioxide at Mauna Loa Observatory in Hawaii since from 1958 to June 2012. By Dr. Pieter Tans, NOAA/ESRL Full Mauna Loa CO2 record Public Domain. The current level is almost twice as high as the long term average over the past several hundred thousand years. These data come from analysis of bubbles of air trapped in ice. Glacial ice has annual layers and can be dated, allowing researchers to look back in time as they drill deeper into the ice. The longest records now come from ice cores extending over 3 km deep into an Antarctic glacier. Throughout the 800,000-year period of record, CO2 levels never exceeded 300 ppm and were typically around 220 ppm. The graph above shows carbon dioxide data from an ice core extending 400,000 years into the past; more recent data double that time span but show a similar pattern. Carbon dioxide has fluctuated between about 170 ppm and 300 ppm; at no point did it approach the current level of nearly 400 ppm. By NOAA evidence CO2 Public Domain The situation is similar for other greenhouse gases including methane and nitrous oxide, each of which has increased dramatically since about 1900. Levels of three important greenhouse gases have all increased greatly starting at around 1900. Values are in parts per million (ppm) or parts per billion (ppb) which indicates the number of molecules of each gas in a million or billion molecules of mixed air. By U.S. Global Change Research Program. (Greenhouse Gases) Public Domain Clearly, greenhouse gases are increasing. And you already know that human population and impact have increased greatly through the Industrial Age, so it is natural to suspect that human activities are the cause of recent changes in atmospheric gases. Many lines of evidence confirm this. Specific human activities and practices are known to emit greenhouse gases and are also known to have increased in step with rising greenhouse gas concentrations. CO2: burning of fossil fuels, deforestation. Burning of coal, oil, and natural gas transfers carbon from long-term storage in the Earth’s crust and adds CO2 directly to the air. Deforestation reduces the overall rate of photosynthesis and plant growth. It also returns carbon stored in wood and soil to the atmosphere when wood is burned or when soils are warmed up, encouraging decomposition. Methane (CH4): fossil fuel production and transport, rice paddy agriculture, ruminant livestock, landfilling of garbage, sewage treatment. Methane-releasing decomposers (prokaryotes in the domain Archaea) thrive under wet, low-oxygen conditions. Humans create methane emissions by favoring the activity of these decomposers. Ruminant livestock—cattle, goats, and so on—have this type of prokaryotes in their stomachs and release methane as flatulence. Methane is also emitted when natural gas escapes from wells or pipelines. In the future climate change itself may also lead to big methane releases due to melting of permafrost and other releases from long-term storage. Nitrous oxide (N2O): agriculture, exhaust from internal combustion engines. Humans add extra nitrous oxide (N2O) to the air through use of artificial fertilizers and other agricultural practices. Nitrous oxide is also produced when fuels or biomass are burned; high temperatures encourage a reaction between N2 and O2 gases in the air. Therefore the exhaust from internal combustion engines is a source of nitrous oxide. Many ongoing natural processes also influence levels of greenhouse gases, but these processes have not changed in a way that can account for the extra CO2 in the air. Typically natural processes cancel each other out; they are part of cycle that is more or less in balance. Human activities, by contrast, have a history of rapid increase that tracks very closely with the observed increase in the air’s greenhouse gas levels over the past century. Global human carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels and from cement production. Direct emissions have increased rapidly since 1950 in step with increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide. Graph by Mak Thorpe using data from the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center. By Mak Thorpe. (Global Carbon Emissions) CC-BY-SA As previously discussed, greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat. There is a clear theoretical basis for the idea that increases in greenhouse gas levels should warm the climate. There is also an abundance of direct evidence that climate has warmed in association with higher concentrations of greenhouse gases over time. Coinciding with the observed increase in greenhouse gases, scientists have documented substantial increases in the average temperatures of Earth’s air and oceans, particularly since about 1950. Carbon dioxide and temperature in the Industrial Age. As greenhouse gas concentrations have increased (shown here: carbon dioxide, the most important greenhouse gas), average global temperature levels have also risen. By U.S. Global Change Research Program Global Climate Change 4 Public Domain Many other ongoing natural processes have an influence on the climate. Why do scientists think greenhouse gas increases are the factor driving the recent warming? Again, natural processes have not changed in a way that can explain the observed warming of the climate. For example, the sun’s energy output changes over time, and this can influence our climate. But these changes cannot account for recent global warming. In fact, the sun’s energy output was considerably lower than normal from 2005 to 2010, but the climate continued to warm over that period. Taken together, thousands of observations and trends provide evidence for global climate change and indicate some of its consequences for life on planet Earth. The following are a few of the many strong indicators of change: Warm weather and ocean temperatures. In a record of weather and ocean temperature data stretching back to 1900, the top five warmest years were 2005, 2010, 1998, 2003, and 2002. Studies based on weather stations and ocean temperature measurements around the world have repeatedly found a trend of increasing temperatures since about 1900 with steep increases since around 1970. The data for land weather stations are summarized in the graph below. As average temperatures have increased, so has the frequency of extreme heat waves. These are particularly dangerous in low-income nations like India, where people lack air conditioning. Average temperatures from long term weather records since 1800 show an increasing trend, particularly since the 1970s. In this graph, data from a number of different studies are compared. The black line (labeled “Berkeley”) is based on 1.6 billion records from 39,000 different weather stations and 16 different data archives. The study was led by a “climate skeptic” who processed the data to correct for biases and errors he had thought were leading to false conclusions in other analyses. Yet the results paralleled those of other studies by NASA, NOAA, HadCRU, indicating an increase of about 0.9° Celsius since the 1950s. By Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature project. Temperature graph Public Domain Sea level rise. The average sea level has increased by an estimated 0.2 m since 1900, both because the ocean water is expanding as it warms and because glaciers on land are melting. Sea level rise is expected to continue and accelerate with continued warming of the climate. Particularly when coupled with more intense storms, increasing sea levels threaten human settlements and natural ecosystems in low-lying coastal areas worldwide. Ice and permafrost melting. The extent and thickness of floating sea ice in the Arctic has declined in recent decades. Based on satellite data, the area covered by thick multiyear ice decreased by about half between 1980 and 2012. A majority of mountain glaciers are also shrinking in thickness and area over time. Perpetually frozen soils (permafrost) have been melting to increasing depths each summer in the Arctic. Such changes have many implications. Sea ice is important to the ecology of polar bears and other arctic animals; it acts as a platform for travel and foraging. Mountain glaciers supply summer melt water to major river systems in Asia and elsewhere; glacier retreat may reduce the reliability of water supplies for irrigation and other uses. And melting of permafrost leads to landslides and releases additional greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. A comparison showing how Pederson Glacier in Alaska has retreated since 1920; land and vegetation have also filled in what was previously a lagoon habitat. By NOAA Pederson Glacier Public domain Increased intensity or duration of drought. Climate change is likely to reduce rainfall in some regions. Even if rainfall does not decline, warmer temperatures lead directly to drier soils and lower water levels by speeding up evaporation and boosting the rate at which plants use water. Record-breaking droughts and wildfire seasons are some indicators that this effect is already under way in some regions. Droughts threaten human well-being by limiting crop production and by reducing the availability of water for municipal use, navigation, power generation, and recreation. Changes in species distributions. Many species’ geographic ranges are shifting, following climate conditions toward historically cooler areas as their existing habitats get warmer. Species are shifting toward the poles: further north in the Northern Hemisphere and further south in the Southern Hemisphere. In mountainous regions, species’ distributions are shifting upward to higher elevations. Range shifts may lead to endangerment of species, loss of species that provide economic resources, and northward spread of tropical pathogens and their vectors (particularly mosquitoes). Changes in seasonal patterns of life. As the climate warms, springtime events—leaf emergence and flowering, nesting and migration of birds, etc.—are occurring at earlier dates than in the past. A 2003 study reviewed data from studies on 172 different species of plants, birds, butterflies, and amphibians and found that springtime events had shifted toward earlier dates by an average of 2.3 days per ten years; most of the studies extended over a period of about 50 years. Such shifts can disrupt community interactions, particularly since some species respond more quickly than others to changes in climate. Studies have found that some birds arrive at summer breeding grounds only to find that their prey (insects) have already completed their life cycles. Similarly, some butterfly species are in trouble because their food plants are developing tough leaves and beginning to wither earlier in the season, before the caterpillars have hatched. To learn more about how butterflies are responding to climate changes view the video in the “Changing Planet” series by NBC Learn on “ The Adaption of Butterflies .”   Human Population Growth To grasp our collective impact as human beings, we must begin with some analysis of our population’s size and technological reach. How many of us are there? How did we get to our current abundance and affluence? What were some of the major milestones along the way? Based on fossil and genetic evidence, the first anatomically modern Homo sapiens arose in Africa about 200,000 years ago. The history of humanity can be divided into three broad periods that represent widely differing ways of life. We will call them the Stone Age, the Agricultural Age, and the Industrial Age. Stone Age. By 50,000 years ago, humans had developed many features of Stone Age technology and culture. By 20,000 years ago, modern humans had dispersed through much of the world. Stone Age humans obtained food by fishing, hunting wild game, and gathering wild plant products. Food sources were unreliable and most humans were nomadic, traveling widely to find food. Shelter, clothing, and tools were made from stone, animal hides, and wood. Fire was used as a source of heat and to modify the landscape for better hunting or travel. Human labor was the main energy source. Agricultural Age. This age started around 10,000 years ago. It involved many (though not all) human cultures worldwide and extended through the late 1700s. People began to domesticate plants and animals. Food supplies became more reliable and abundant and diets expanded to include grains, poultry, meat and dairy products from livestock, improved fruits and nuts, and more. Agricultural Age humans stayed close to productive farms and pastures and built the first permanent towns and cities. Humans began to extract and forge metal to make durable tools, weapons, and ornaments. Energy sources expanded to include labor from farm animals such as oxen and horses. Windmills and water mills were also used as a source of power. Some cultures developed extensive water control systems for irrigation of crops. Governments, organized religions, and written languages flourished. Industrial Age. The Industrial Age began in Europe in the 1700s and continues today. Agriculture continued to improve and cities continued to grow. Global trade moved people and ideas around the world. Science helped to spark new technologies. Machines harnessed external sources of energy to accomplish all kinds of work. Fossil fuels became the main source of energy for transportation, farm work, heating, cooling, manufacturing, mining, and other activities. Scientific principles were applied to improve public health, beginning with vast improvements to sanitation in cities. Sewage treatment, safe municipal water supplies, public garbage disposal, and soap are all Industrial Age innovations. Modern medical practices, including aseptic surgery, antibiotics, and vaccinations, were developed. At the same time, the reliability and quality of food supplies continued to improve. Thus the world’s humans have gone through dramatic changes in their technologies and living conditions. In the activity below, explore and learn more about how rates of birth, death, and population growth changed as a result. History of Environmental Impacts Thus far, we have seen how human technology and population size have changed over the past 200,000 years. How have humans impacted the environment over this time span? Humans have had an impact on Earth’s ecosystems at every stage of our history. During the Stone Age, for example, human use of fire may have had a profound effect on many ecosystems.By setting forest and grassland fires, humans favor fire-adapted plant and animal species. Hunting may have depleted some food resources and probably contributed to past animal extinctions as well. During the Agricultural Age, humans cleared forests and created dams and irrigation systems. These actions harmed many species and benefited others. In some cases, resources like forests or fertile soils were depleted on a local or regional scale, contributing to the collapse of human societies. Throughout this history, however, human impacts on the environment were limited in their scope and severity. Starting with the Industrial Revolution, human impacts on the environment have intensified. Many of them have become particularly extreme since about 1950. Human activities generate impacts through three major mechanisms summarized below. Physical disturbance. Humans reshape the physical structure of ecosystems by clearing forests, suppressing or setting fires, building roads and cities, mining, maintaining croplands, and building water control structures such as dams. This leads to biodiversity loss. It may also increase our exposure to forest fires, floods, droughts, soil erosion, landslides, and other physical hazards. Resource depletion. Currently, the average citizen of a developed nation consumes an average of 16 tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year. Shortages may result if humans use resources at an unsustainable rate. Wild plants and animals may be harvested to the point of extinction. Degradation of soil can lead to crop failures. Minerals and fossil fuels may be depleted to the point where their extraction becomes increasingly expensive and disruptive. Pollution. Humans release materials that harm biodiversity or human health. Pollution may occur whenhumans greatly increase the levels of naturally occurring materials in the air, water, or soil. Other pollutants are novel synthetic chemical compounds, usually derived from petrochemicals, that are toxic and persist in the environment. The scope of human actions and impacts is truly mind-boggling. The map below illustrates our global impact using a “human footprint index” that summarizes several different indicators. Humanity’s global environmental footprint. Areas least impacted by human activities are shown in green and more heavily impacted regions are red, purple, and black. This index is based on several different indicators of human presence and activity: human population density, physical habitat disruption (built-up areas, nighttime lights, land use/land cover), and accessibility (coastlines, roads, railroads, navigable rivers). By Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN), Columbia University and Wildlife Conservation Society, the Bronx Zoo, New York. By SEDAC (Human Footprint) Public Domain We humans are incredibly ingenious as individuals. But as part of an organized culture that has accumulated knowledge since the Stone Age, our power is far greater. Consider a gadget like a laptop computer. No one human really knows how to make a laptop, and certainly no individual could manufacture one from scratch working alone. Instead, thousands of individuals must contribute specialized knowledge to make the parts and assemble them in a working unit. Making a laptop also depends on extraction of metals and oil from deposits around the world, and requires heavy inputs of fossil energy. Similar feats of cooperation and innovation allow us to make airplanes, smart phones, heart monitors, reliable automobiles, and thousands of other useful objects. Unfortunately, we also have the power to do great damage to the environment and its ability to sustain life. We simplify and reshape ecosystems. We overuse resources so that they become scarce and costly. We make atomic weapons and synthesize chemicals that are both persistent and toxic. We overload natural geochemical cycles, leading to the accumulation of wastes. These and other impacts will be described further in this module. Next we will focus on one particular aspect of human impact that is very relevant to the field of biology: how humans have changed biodiversity on a global scale. Thus far, we have seen how human technology and population size have changed over the past 200,000 years. How have humans impacted the environment over this time span? Humans have had an impact on Earth’s ecosystems at every stage of our history. During the Stone Age, for example, human use of fire may have had a profound effect on many ecosystems.By setting forest and grassland fires, humans favor fire-adapted plant and animal species. Hunting may have depleted some food resources and probably contributed to past animal extinctions as well. During the Agricultural Age, humans cleared forests and created dams and irrigation systems. These actions harmed many species and benefited others. In some cases, resources like forests or fertile soils were depleted on a local or regional scale, contributing to the collapse of human societies. Throughout this history, however, human impacts on the environment were limited in their scope and severity. Starting with the Industrial Revolution, human impacts on the environment have intensified. Many of them have become particularly extreme since about 1950. Human activities generate impacts through three major mechanisms summarized below. Physical disturbance. Humans reshape the physical structure of ecosystems by clearing forests, suppressing or setting fires, building roads and cities, mining, maintaining croplands, and building water control structures such as dams. This leads to biodiversity loss. It may also increase our exposure to forest fires, floods, droughts, soil erosion, landslides, and other physical hazards. Resource depletion. Currently, the average citizen of a developed nation consumes an average of 16 tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year. Shortages may result if humans use resources at an unsustainable rate. Wild plants and animals may be harvested to the point of extinction. Degradation of soil can lead to crop failures. Minerals and fossil fuels may be depleted to the point where their extraction becomes increasingly expensive and disruptive. Pollution. Humans release materials that harm biodiversity or human health. Pollution may occur whenhumans greatly increase the levels of naturally occurring materials in the air, water, or soil. Other pollutants are novel synthetic chemical compounds, usually derived from petrochemicals, that are toxic and persist in the environment. The scope of human actions and impacts is truly mind-boggling. The map below illustrates our global impact using a “human footprint index” that summarizes several different indicators. Humanity’s global environmental footprint. Areas least impacted by human activities are shown in green and more heavily impacted regions are red, purple, and black. This index is based on several different indicators of human presence and activity: human population density, physical habitat disruption (built-up areas, nighttime lights, land use/land cover), and accessibility (coastlines, roads, railroads, navigable rivers). By Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN), Columbia University and Wildlife Conservation Society, the Bronx Zoo, New York. By SEDAC (Human Footprint) Public Domain   Human Impact Summary In this module we’ve taken a broad look at some of the impacts of human beings on the Earth’s ecosystems and communities. We began with an organizing framework for understanding and predicting impacts. All else being equal, human impacts will increase as populations get bigger, increase with greater affluence and a higher standard of living, and will depend upon the types of technologies that are used to support that standard of living. Technologies are sustainable when they can be used over the long term without degrading ecosystems; they also must meet human needs or people will not choose to use them. Two measures of sustainability are the use of renewable resources and biodegradable materials. In the Stone Age, thinly scattered bands of hunter-gatherers had a limited impact on Earth’s ecosystems. Through the Agricultural Age and particularly during the Industrial Age we’ve seen steep increases in population size, affluence, and the use of high-impact technologies. Human environmental impacts have increased accordingly. Some mechanisms of human impact include physical disturbance of landscapes, depletion of resources, and pollution. Biodiversity is the variety of life and includes genetic diversity, species richness, and the variety of ecosystems at a regional scale. Humans are inspired and comforted by biodiversity. We also depend on naturally functioning ecosystems directly as a source of products and services. Natural ecosystems remove pollutants from air and water, physically stabilize land, harbor animals that pollinate crops, provide recreational opportunities, are a source of harvested goods, and hold diverse biochemicals and other “ideas” for useful products. Humans have substantially degraded biodiversity through habitat destruction, species introductions, overharvesting, and pollution. Currently these factors are generating the most damage in lower- and middle-income nations in the tropics. Physical and chemical factors have also changed as a result of human influence. Examples are diverse and widespread, involving many different aspects of the atmosphere, land, and water. One particularly important human impact is now known as anthropogenic global climate change. This trend is also known as global warming and is related to a natural phenomenon known as the greenhouse effect. Certain gases warm the climate by absorbing and re-emitting heat radiation, keeping temperatures warmer and more stable near the planet’s surface. Humans have strengthened this effect by adding extra greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Some results have included increased temperatures, increased sea level, increasingly variable weather, melting ice and permafrost, increasing droughts, shifts in species distributions, and shifts in the timing of seasonal events. The future of humanity will be strongly affected by these and other environmental trends. What can we predict about how our environmental impacts will develop over time? Population size will continue to increase for several more decades, but it is already slowing overall and populations may peak somewhere in the range of 9 - 11 billion. Over the next 40 years, almost all of the growth in the world’s population will happen in lower-income nations in Asia and Africa where fertility rates are still relatively high and populations have lots of young people. At the same time, increasing affluence in many of these nations will lead to unprecedented global levels of consumption. Many lower-impact technologies are emerging that may help to reduce some of humanity’s impacts on the environment, but it is unclear how quickly or widely they will spread. There are many potential actions humans can take to reduce risks from accelerating problems like climate change and biodiversity loss. In the case of climate change, we are beginning to respond with two overall strategies. The first, mitigation, seeks to slow climate change by reducing the rate of increase in greenhouse gas levels. The second, adaptation, is an effort to prepare for future changes in climate and minimize harm to humans and ecosystems. Both approaches will require concerted effort on a global scale. We hope that you have benefited from this module. Starting with a good grasp of the basics, you can learn a great deal more about our effects on the environment. You can contribute to sustainable solutions through actions taken at the individual and family level. And you can promote more sustainable practices within any group of which you’re a part, whether it is a extracurricular club, church, business, government agency, or nonprofit organization. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. sustainable technology renewable resource biodegradable material physical disturbance resource depletion pollution biodiversity habitat loss introduced species overharvesting anthropogenic global climate change greenhouse gas greenhouse effect climate change mitigation climate change adaptation In this module we’ve taken a broad look at some of the impacts of human beings on the Earth’s ecosystems and communities. We began with an organizing framework for understanding and predicting impacts. All else being equal, human impacts will increase as populations get bigger, increase with greater affluence and a higher standard of living, and will depend upon the types of technologies that are used to support that standard of living. Technologies are sustainable when they can be used over the long term without degrading ecosystems; they also must meet human needs or people will not choose to use them. Two measures of sustainability are the use of renewable resources and biodegradable materials. In the Stone Age, thinly scattered bands of hunter-gatherers had a limited impact on Earth’s ecosystems. Through the Agricultural Age and particularly during the Industrial Age we’ve seen steep increases in population size, affluence, and the use of high-impact technologies. Human environmental impacts have increased accordingly. Some mechanisms of human impact include physical disturbance of landscapes, depletion of resources, and pollution. Biodiversity is the variety of life and includes genetic diversity, species richness, and the variety of ecosystems at a regional scale. Humans are inspired and comforted by biodiversity. We also depend on naturally functioning ecosystems directly as a source of products and services. Natural ecosystems remove pollutants from air and water, physically stabilize land, harbor animals that pollinate crops, provide recreational opportunities, are a source of harvested goods, and hold diverse biochemicals and other “ideas” for useful products. Humans have substantially degraded biodiversity through habitat destruction, species introductions, overharvesting, and pollution. Currently these factors are generating the most damage in lower- and middle-income nations in the tropics. Physical and chemical factors have also changed as a result of human influence. Examples are diverse and widespread, involving many different aspects of the atmosphere, land, and water. One particularly important human impact is now known as anthropogenic global climate change. This trend is also known as global warming and is related to a natural phenomenon known as the greenhouse effect. Certain gases warm the climate by absorbing and re-emitting heat radiation, keeping temperatures warmer and more stable near the planet’s surface. Humans have strengthened this effect by adding extra greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Some results have included increased temperatures, increased sea level, increasingly variable weather, melting ice and permafrost, increasing droughts, shifts in species distributions, and shifts in the timing of seasonal events. The future of humanity will be strongly affected by these and other environmental trends. What can we predict about how our environmental impacts will develop over time? Population size will continue to increase for several more decades, but it is already slowing overall and populations may peak somewhere in the range of 9 - 11 billion. Over the next 40 years, almost all of the growth in the world’s population will happen in lower-income nations in Asia and Africa where fertility rates are still relatively high and populations have lots of young people. At the same time, increasing affluence in many of these nations will lead to unprecedented global levels of consumption. Many lower-impact technologies are emerging that may help to reduce some of humanity’s impacts on the environment, but it is unclear how quickly or widely they will spread. There are many potential actions humans can take to reduce risks from accelerating problems like climate change and biodiversity loss. In the case of climate change, we are beginning to respond with two overall strategies. The first, mitigation, seeks to slow climate change by reducing the rate of increase in greenhouse gas levels. The second, adaptation, is an effort to prepare for future changes in climate and minimize harm to humans and ecosystems. Both approaches will require concerted effort on a global scale. We hope that you have benefited from this module. Starting with a good grasp of the basics, you can learn a great deal more about our effects on the environment. You can contribute to sustainable solutions through actions taken at the individual and family level. And you can promote more sustainable practices within any group of which you’re a part, whether it is a extracurricular club, church, business, government agency, or nonprofit organization. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. sustainable technology renewable resource biodegradable material physical disturbance resource depletion pollution biodiversity habitat loss introduced species overharvesting anthropogenic global climate change greenhouse gas greenhouse effect climate change mitigation climate change adaptation   Introduction to Biotechnology The ability to manipulate DNA has led to dramatic changes in medicine, agriculture, and many other aspects of society. For example, genes from other species are transferred into crop plants and livestock to provide them with desired traits. And many drugs are produced by bacteria, yeast, or other organisms that have been engineered to express human genes. In this module, you will learn about how biotechnology is used to produce human growth hormone (huGH) for medical applications. HuGH is a protein made of 191 amino acids. It is necessary for the normal growth and metabolism of an individual. Worldwide, one in 4,000 to 10,000 individuals is born without the ability to make sufficient human growth hormone, causing a host of medical problems. These people can be helped with growth hormone injections, but growth hormone from other species (pigs, cattle) cannot be used. Only human growth hormone will produce the desired effects. Historically, the only source of human growth hormone was a small amount that could be extracted from recently deceased individuals (cadavers). this severely limited the supply that was available for medical use. You will also learn about how biotechnology has solved this problem and decreased the cost of medical treatments that significantly improve the quality of life for many people.   Definitions of Terms The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Artificial Selection Deliberate mating between two individuals who were selected based on desired traits. Gene Flow The result of fertile members of a species moving into or out of a population. Gene Pool All of the genes and alleles present in a population at some point in time. Genetic Drift The change in a gene pool as a result of random chance. Microevolution Occurs when the type or frequency of the alleles and genotypes in a population change over one to many generations of time Mutation A permanent, irreversible, and heritable change in DNA. Natural selection A process by which nature (i.e. the environment and all of its components) impacts the evolution of a population. Population All the individuals of the same species that occupy the same area and are likely to breed with one another. Sexual Selection Natural selection arising through preference by one sex for certain characteristics in individuals of the other sex. Species A group of organisms whose members can and will breed with each other to produce fertile offspring.   Unit Summary: Evolution We have come to the end of this Unit, but evolution continues and our understanding of this process continues to grow. In particular, modern DNA sequencing technology has given us unprecedented access to the genomes of a growing host of species. In these data we find what Sean Carroll, a biologist at the University of Wisconsin, has called the “ultimate forensic record of evolution.” We began by placing evolution in context as a discipline within biology. To qualify as biological evolution, a change should occur in: inherited characteristics (genetics). a population or higher-level group. over at least one and usually many generations of time. Microevolution tracks how the genetic traits of a population (the gene pool) change over several generations. New traits or characteristics are born by mutation, in a process that is random and unplanned. However, various forms of selection sift through those traits so that certain genetic types tend to flourish: Those that survive and grow well in a given environment (natural selection). Those that are better able to compete for mates (sexual selection); or Sometimes even those that humans choose for their desirable traits (artificial selection). Adaptive traits are those that are favored by natural selection; when we look at life in all of its diversity, we encounter amazing adaptations at every turn. Sexually selected traits are also very common. Rather than being the toughest, meanest, or even the strongest, the organisms with the highest evolutionary fitness are simply those that reproduce the most over a lifetime. There are many ways to be fit and adaptive traits may shift with changing environments. In addition to the forms of selection, microevolution also takes place through processes that do not necessarily lead to adaptation. You should be aware of how mutation, gene flow, and genetic drift can change a population’s gene pool. Macroevolution is the longer-term outcome of microevolution. It occurs at the levels of species and higher-level groups (lineages). Speciation is the splitting apart of a lineage into two or more new species. It can occur through isolation in space (allopatric) or through behavioral or genetic mechanisms within a continuous habitat (sympatric). After splitting, lineages evolve independently of each other. Over time, changes accumulate and additional splits generate clusters of related species (clades). Members of a clade share homologous features: inherited characteristics that can be traced to an ancestor that they share. Evolutionary biology provides a huge range of practical benefits. An understanding of microevolution has allowed us to develop effective therapies to combat HIV and to make great progress against malaria. We are most effective when we recognize that any infectious disease is an evolutionary dance involving adaptations among pathogens, vectors (like the mosquito), and hosts - including humans. On another level, “tree thinking” helps us navigate biodiversity with greater intelligence. And our kinship to other species means that we can learn a great deal about ourselves by exploring model organisms in depth. In this unit, we have only scratched the surface of evolutionary theory. Evolution is a slow and often very complex process. Disputes about what happened in the past can be evaluated by sifting through the available crime-scene evidence (fossils and genes, for example). But there are no living human eyewitnesses to past macroevolution. Therefore scientists will continue to engage in lively debate about the details of exactly how evolution occurred. In particular, the issues surrounding speciation are quite complex and there are many competing ideas about the best way to recognize and define biological lineages. However, scientists are nearly unanimous in their acceptance of the broad ideas of evolution as they have been presented in this course. Evidence for common ancestry, an ancient Earth, and ongoing adaptation by natural selection is overwhelming and is accumulating daily. Improved public acceptance or at least understanding of evolution is a goal shared by biologists and educators. You may feel at times that scientists are trying to talk you out of your religious or cultural traditions. However, you should know that scientists are people and have varied perspectives on religious and philosophical matters. Most scientists recognize that not every question can be answered by evolutionary thinking. Many find value in religious traditions or other sources of meaning even as they embrace the logic and beauty of evolution. To learn more... National Academy of Sciences and Institute of Medicine. 2008. Science, Evolution, and Creationism. Washington, D.C.: The National Academies Press.. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit.   Unit Introduction: Evolution Thus far you have learned a great deal about how cells function. In the genetics units you’ve learned how biological information is inherited and used. You are beginning to appreciate that each cell and organism is a complex and highly integrated unit. Life changes and evolves over time. Evolution considers how life changes from one generation to the next and how these changes accumulate over very long periods. Evolution builds on what you already know. It is a scientific theory that explores life on a different scale and provides another layer of explanation (Table 1). First, it goes beyond the brief lifetimes of individual organisms. Instead, evolution considers how life changes from one generation to the next and how these changes accumulate over very long time scales. Second, evolution is focused on collections of individuals: populations, species, and larger taxonomic groups (for example, birds or flowering plants). Evolution also adds another layer of explanation to biological thinking. So far we have focused mainly on “how” questions. How does a cell maintain homeostasis? How is information passed from parents to offspring, and how is that information used to construct living cells? Evolution helps us answer “why” questions: Why do cells of very different organisms have so much in common? Why are cave fish blind? Rather than taking the features of life as a starting point, evolution asks why those features exist today and how they originated in the past. Characteristics of Evolutionary Theory Attribute Characteristics Time scale Generations to much longer time scales Level of hierarchy Populations to larger collections like taxonomic groups Level of explanation Explores “why” questions. Why do features of life exist as they do? What is their history? As a scientific theory, evolution is more than a mere opinion or guess. In science, a “theory” is a broad explanation that is supported by a great deal of evidence and continues to inspire productive research. Scientists accept and use evolutionary theory because it is so strongly supported by evidence from many different sources. It fits our observations of the diversity and variability of physical traits in animals in different settings. The theory is now also supported by consistent and reproducible data gathered from fossils, a detailed understanding of the skeletal and organ structure of living organisms, and our twenty-first century abilities to examine and determine the structure and function of proteins and DNA in living things. Since the theory of evolution was first put forth in the 1850s and since some of the supporting evidence is based in ancient fossils, you might get the impression that evolution occurred in the past and is complete. That is not correct. In fact, evolution continues all around us today and evolutionary ideas are being applied to solve a huge range of problems of both academic and practical interest! Below are a few examples. You will learn about some of them in this unit. Evolutionary theory and models are used to: Combat drug resistance in disease-causing pathogens Fight against fast-evolving insect pests and weeds Figure out the origins of modern languages Design better products and software Develop targeted vaccines against seasonal influenza Discover the genes underlying human diseases Evolution is that and much more. In the first module, we will introduce and define the biological theory of evolution. In the second module we will focus on relatively fast and subtle changes that occur within populations (microevolution). In the third module we will consider the much more dramatic changes that occur over long time scales and generate the diversity of life (macroevolution). As you learn, try to maintain an open mind and evaluate the evidence on its own merits. You will gain a better understanding of a scientific theory that is very influential in our society. Attribute Characteristics Time scale Generations to much longer time scales Level of hierarchy Populations to larger collections like taxonomic groups Level of explanation Explores “why” questions. Why do features of life exist as they do? What is their history? As a scientific theory, evolution is more than a mere opinion or guess. In science, a “theory” is a broad explanation that is supported by a great deal of evidence and continues to inspire productive research. Scientists accept and use evolutionary theory because it is so strongly supported by evidence from many different sources. It fits our observations of the diversity and variability of physical traits in animals in different settings. The theory is now also supported by consistent and reproducible data gathered from fossils, a detailed understanding of the skeletal and organ structure of living organisms, and our twenty-first century abilities to examine and determine the structure and function of proteins and DNA in living things. Since the theory of evolution was first put forth in the 1850s and since some of the supporting evidence is based in ancient fossils, you might get the impression that evolution occurred in the past and is complete. That is not correct. In fact, evolution continues all around us today and evolutionary ideas are being applied to solve a huge range of problems of both academic and practical interest! Below are a few examples. You will learn about some of them in this unit. Evolutionary theory and models are used to: Combat drug resistance in disease-causing pathogens Fight against fast-evolving insect pests and weeds Figure out the origins of modern languages Design better products and software Develop targeted vaccines against seasonal influenza Discover the genes underlying human diseases Evolution is that and much more. In the first module, we will introduce and define the biological theory of evolution. In the second module we will focus on relatively fast and subtle changes that occur within populations (microevolution). In the third module we will consider the much more dramatic changes that occur over long time scales and generate the diversity of life (macroevolution). As you learn, try to maintain an open mind and evaluate the evidence on its own merits. You will gain a better understanding of a scientific theory that is very influential in our society.   What is Evolution? In our society, the word “evolution” is used very broadly to mean any kind of change (usually for the better). Political views, hairstyles, and technologies all are said to “evolve.” In science, the phrase “biological evolution” has a more precise meaning. Biological evolution is a change in inherited (genetic) features that occurs in populations and higher-level groups over time. Evolution can be divided into two levels: microevolution and macroevolution. Microevolution is a process that occurs within a single population as inherited traits become more or less common from one generation to the next. It is a change in the genetic makeup of a population. Natural selection is the main process of microevolution; it shapes populations such that they become better-adapted to local conditions over time. For bacteria, viruses, insects, weeds, birds, small fish, and other species with short generation times, we can sometimes directly observe microevolution over periods of a few years or less. Macroevolution involves bigger changes that occur more slowly and cannot be directly observed in most cases. It is the long-term evolution of biological lineages and includes the origin and extinction of species and larger taxonomic groups. According to current scientific thinking, all of life’s diversity can be traced back to one or a few original cellular life forms. From this starting point, macroevolution has done a huge job in producing life’s diversity. It has had a long time to work: scientists estimate that life on Earth is well over 3 billion years old. Over vast time spans, slow and subtle processes have produced the spectacular diversity of modern life. Level of evolution Level of hierarchy What changes? Time scale? Macroevolution Biological lineages: species and higher-level taxonomic groups Biodiversity: features and numbers of species Many generations; too slow to observe directly in most cases Microevolution Populations Gene pool: genetic makeup of the population One to many generations; may be observed directly in short-lived species Does not qualify as biological evolution Individual Characteristics including features acquired through development, learning, injury, etc. Single life span To recap, below are the major components of the modern theory of biological evolution: Evolution is a change in the genetic makeup of populations or larger groups of organisms over generations of time. Natural selection is a key process of evolution and explains life’s adaptive features. Life on Earth is ancient (at least 3.6 billion years old) and all life forms are related by ancestry from one or a few single-celled common ancestors. Evolution is a change in a population, not in the characteristics of one individual over a single lifetime. As its body temperature, breeding status, and mood change, a lizard’s colors may intensify or fade. But this has no effect on future generations of lizards. We must broaden our focus to see evolutionary changes: in a population of thousands or millions, what percentage of lizards inherit a light color pattern and what percentage inherit darker colors? How does this inherited trait change over many generations? One striking feature of life is its adaptation: the exquisite “fit” between organisms and their natural environments. In their behavior, structure, and chemistry organisms are very well-suited to the conditions of life they experience. They may be astonishingly cryptic (camouflaged) in their natural backgrounds. They may tolerate extremes of cold, heat, salinity, or other factors unique to their habitat. Adaptive traits are any inherited characteristics - physical, chemical, or behavioral - that enable an organism’s successful reproduction in a given environment. “Bleached” form of lesser earless lizard (Holbrookia maculata) from White Sands National Monument, a region of white-sand dunes in New Mexico. The light color of lizards from this population results from a known mutation in a pigmentation gene and helps them avoid detection by visual predators. Lesser earless lizard (Holbrookia maculata) from a typical habitat containing rocks and woody plants in the western United States. The broken outline and blotchy coloration of this lizard help it blend in with its local habitat and avoid detection by visual predators. Why do adaptive traits exist? Natural selection is a process that produces and maintains adaptive traits within populations. It occurs under the following circumstances and through the following process: Heritable variation exists in a population. In other words, the population includes different genetic types that can pass on their characteristics to their offspring. These types exist because of past mutations. In the example above, the “bleached” form of lizard has a known mutation in a pigmentation gene called Mc1r. Mutations in the same gene influence coloration in a wide range of animals including fish, falcons, mice, dogs, and humans. Selection occurs: some of the genetic types reproduce more than others in a given environment. In the lizard example, imagine a time when most lizards in the White Sands area had a darker color form. A new “bleached” mutant appeared in the population. On the white background, “bleached” lizards probably survived much better than did those who inherited a darker color pattern. Experiments have confirmed that small animals that match their backgrounds are much less likely to be attacked by visual predators. A matching color pattern is an adaptive trait: it results in improved average reproductive success in the appropriate environment. Adaptation results: over generations of time, those genetic types that reproduce more successfully become more common in a population. Adaptive traits become common as a result of past and ongoing natural selection. In the core of the White Sands area, the vast majority of lizards show the “bleached” color pattern. We sometimes refer to organisms’ adaptive traits as “adaptations.” We also use the word “adaptation” as a verb, to describe the process of evolution that occurs over many generations of natural selection. In the White Sands National Monument, we see the outcome of past evolution - three different species of lizard all have “bleached” color forms that inhabit the white-sand dunes. But we can also see evidence of ongoing evolution. Within two of the three species, lizards of both color forms coexist around the edges of the White Sands and there is a gradual shift toward darker color patterns as one moves into the surrounding (brown-soiled) desert. In some areas there is noticeable variation; both color forms are present. No doubt there is ongoing selection as predators continue to hunt lizards, generation after generation. Although the lizards move around and breed with each other, natural selection maintains dark color types in dark habitats and “bleached” color forms in the White Sands. To learn more: Rosenblum, EB and others. 2009. Molecular and functional basis of phenotypic convergence in white lizards at White Sands. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 107: 2113-2117   Roots of Evolution People have been grappling with questions about the origins of life for nearly as long as we have been in existence. Every society has addressed these questions based on the information that was available at that time and place. Before the Scientific Revolution, people used many different sources of information to answer questions about the origins of life. Some of their ideas were based on direct observations, but many of them involved supernatural beings or spiritual forces. Stories were told to explain how the world and humans were made, but also to address questions of meaning: why the world exists and what human life is “for.” Ideas were passed down as oral tradition (myth and folklore) or in the written documents of organized religions. Scientific study is much more narrowly focused on close examination of processes and objects in the natural world. In order for an explanation to be considered scientific, it must be based on verifiable observations. It must be possible to test it through observations or experiments. Ideas or explanations that do not meet these criteria are not necessarily “bad” or “wrong,” but they are unscientific. Scientific and non-scientific views are separate but potentially complementary ways of knowing. Scientific methods can be used to answer direct, factual questions about “what is” and “what probably was” through a clear procedure of observation and testing. Through an ongoing process scientists select ideas that best fit the available data. No religious tradition revealed the existence and function of DNA to humans: that was the fruit of scientific study and reasoning. However, answers derived from science are limited. They do not necessarily help with ultimate questions of meaning (why the Universe exists in the first place, what humans should be or do). Non-scientific ways of looking at the world (religion, philosophy) are more directly focused on these questions. Many scientists embrace religious ideas about the meaning and ultimate origins of life. However, they do not publish these ideas in scientific journals or used them to explain their detailed observations of the natural world. In this course, we will focus on how the scientific community understands evolution and the origins of life. Like the community of science itself, we will restrict our scope to fairly narrow questions of how and when things probably happened, based on what we can observe today. Other explanations are better suited to philosophy or religion courses; they help us explore broader questions about why the Universe exists and what our place is within it. Before defining the modern theory of evolution, we will consider its historic roots. You probably know that the scholar most widely recognized as the author of the theory of evolution was Charles Darwin. The first statement of modern evolutionary theory was his book On the Origin of Species, published in 1859. But Darwin didn’t make up the theory from nothing, and he wasn’t the first to ask questions about the ultimate origins of life. How did science deal with life’s big “why” questions before evolutionary theory developed? What clues led scientists to propose and embrace evolution? To gain some insights into these questions, explore the Learn By Doing activity below. It is important to recognize the distinction between scientific and traditional views. In the following activity, you will be presented with different views related to the origins of life that have been held throughout history. From the information given, determine whether the view is scientific or traditional. The views are listed in chronological order with approximate dates so that you can also see the progression of these ideas over time. After Darwin, science has continued to reinforce, refine, and modify the theory of evolution. Two major developments were particularly important. In the early 1900s, scientists rediscovered Mendel’s genetic principles and applied them to evolution. Theorists developed models of how the gene pool of a population could change over time. Field biologists observed such changes in fruit flies and other short-lived organisms. Lab experiments also demonstrated the effects of natural selection. With a focus on genetics, these advances reinforced the idea of natural selection. In 1953 James Watson and Francis Crick discovered the structure of DNA. This laid the groundwork for an explosion of information that continues today. Inherited information now can be analyzed directly and in detail. Comparisons of DNA in different species support their common ancestry. DNA analysis also pinpoints the genetic mutations that produce new adaptive traits in organisms. To Learn More: A comprehensive database of Darwin-related publications, images, commentary and more are available free online at http://darwin-online.org.uk/. A more detailed history of evolutionary thought is available from the University of California Museum of Paleontology at http://evolution.berkeley.edu/evolibrary/article/0_0_0/history_01.   Gene Flow and Genetic Drift We have just learned how natural selection, sexual selection, and artificial selection can change the gene pool of a population and result in evolution. In this section we will consider other processes that can change the gene pool of a population: mutation, gene flow, and genetic drift. Remember from the gene expression module that a mutation is a permanent, irreversible, and heritable change in DNA. We often think of mutations as a “bad” thing, in part because of how they are portrayed in TV shows and movies. Mutant creatures are often bizarre (three eyed fish in Lake Springfield of The Simpsons) or dangerous (mutant dinosaurs of Jurassic Park). Even when the mutations create superheros like the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles or Spider Man, the mutation is never really portrayed as a good thing. While a certain amount of that bad reputation is deserved, as some mutations do indeed have negative consequences for living organisms, not all mutations are "bad." All of the following are true statements about mutations: Mutations alter RNA and may alter protein molecules. If a protein molecule is changed, the altered molecule may work just the same as the original, it may be totally nonfunctional, or it may work more efficiently than before. Some mutations cause genetic disorders, abnormalities, and cancer, while others merely contribute to normal variation of traits in a species (such as freckles, widow’s peaks, and eye color variations). Some mutations are harmful because they encode a trait that decreases an organism's chances of survival, while others are beneficial because they encode an adaptive trait that increases an organism's chances of survival. The effect of a mutation upon an organism can depend upon the environment in which the organism lives. In fact, some mutations that have no immediate effect on survival can be maintained in a gene pool, and as conditions change become advantageous or disadvantageous long after the initial mutation occurred. Mutations in genes are random and have the potential to change the gene pool of a population. When parents produce sperm or eggs, errors (mutations) can occur so that the gametes carry new versions (alleles) of existing genes. Fertilization, growth, and development can result in an adult individual that carries a new allele and is able to pass it on to offspring. Technically, the birth of a single individual carrying a new mutation qualifies as microevolution: as soon as the new allele appears, the gene pool has been altered. Let's consider for a moment the gene that encodes the alpha-amylase enzyme. This enzyme is found in saliva and begins the process of digesting starches in your mouth. Assume that you were born with a new mutant version of the alpha-amylase gene. You produce a form of the enzyme that very efficiently digests starch. No one else in the world carries this form of the alpha-amylase gene in their cells. So as a result of this mutation, a new allele has been introduced in the gene pool of your population and of the entire human race. The type and frequency of the alleles and genotypes in your population has changed (ever so slightly)… so evolution has occurred. Will this change have a meaningful effect on the entire population or species? That depends on what happens next. Let’s look at the possible outcomes of mutations on the gene pool of a population. There is a population of wild flowers in a field near your house. The center of the flowers (where the pollen is located) is either white or orange. The orange color is more prevalent in the population and is thought to be more attractive to pollinating insects. What happens if a random mutation occurs that results in a black colored flower center that is even more attractive to pollinators? The alleles and genotypes in a gene pool can also change via two processes that are sometimes confused with one another: gene flow and genetic drift. Gene flow refers to the movement of alleles from one population to another, as a result of migration followed by breeding. Remember that when living organisms move from one place to another, they take their alleles with them! Consider the average height difference between people in East Asia (e.g. China) and those in Western nations (Europe and the Americas). As westerners migrate to East Asia, the gene pool there changes to include more alleles that confer tall height. Conversely, alleles characteristic of Asian populations move along with immigrants to the United States. Gene flow involves breeding between two or more populations and it tends to make them more similar to each other. Genetic drift refers to random events that change the frequency of alleles and genotypes in a population. It is similar to selection in some ways. Recall that in selection, certain genetic types become more frequent in the population because they survive well, grow well, mate successfully, or even just because humans like them and choose to breed them. In genetic drift, certain genetic types become more frequent through dumb luck. Genetic drift often reduces the diversity of a gene pool and has the biggest effect when there is a low number of organisms in the population. In two different situations, genetic drift can profoundly affect a gene pool. The first is known as the bottleneck effect. When events like fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, and other disasters kill a large percent of the population, the surviving population is unlikely to have the same gene pool as the original population. It is very likely that some alleles will be underrepresented or overrepresented in the surviving population as compared to the original. An analogy may help. Half the cards in a deck are red (hearts and diamonds) and the other half are black (spades and clubs). But if you draw six cards from the deck at random, will you always get 3 red and 3 black cards? No. You might well draw six black or six red cards. Similarly, consider a grove of 1000 oak trees. If a flash flood washes away and kills 900 of the trees, the alleles of these trees have been lost from the population gene pool. Compared to the original group, the 100 lucky survivors will have higher percentages of some genetic types, a lower percentage of others, and some alleles might be entirely missing. The flood altered the population’s gene pool in a random way. Genetic drift can also occur through the founder effect. In the founder effect, a small number of individuals from a population settle in a new area. This small group is not likely to contain all of the alleles of the original population, just as is seen with the survivors in the bottleneck effect. Imagine a field of dandelions. Dandelions are self-fertile, so they do not require cross pollination from other dandelions to produce offspring. If just one of the white fluffy dandelion seeds is carried by the breeze to a new location that does not have dandelions, the plant from this single seed could start a new population. As a result of the founder effect, however, the gene pool of the new population would be very limited. It would have only those alleles that were found in the original seed, drawn at random from a much larger source population. Determine if the following examples of microevolution are examples of mutation, gene flow, or genetic drift. As you can see from the examples presented here, mutations, gene flow and genetic drift are mechanisms that can alter the gene pool of a population leading to microevolution. While these mechanisms of evolution have been presented separately from the mechanisms of natural, artificial, and sexual selection, in reality it is likely that several or all of these mechanisms are at work at any given time to drive evolution. Evolution is a complicated process. It involves some relatively predictable elements (selection and gene flow) but also has many unpredictable aspects (mutation, genetic drift).   What Is Microevolution? Before we begin our exploration of microevolution, let’s review a few principles that we have already covered in this course. The principles of evolution are based in genes; therefore, it is important that we remember that genes are segments of DNA that have "meaning." Genes are sequences of DNA that encode particular RNA and protein molecules, which work together to give a cell and an organism its characteristics and functions, whether they be physical, chemical, or behavioral. Most genes have multiple forms, called alleles,, discussed previously in the Heredity module of the Classical Genetics unit. For example, pea plants have a gene that determines seed color, and the different forms (alleles) of that gene are "green seed" and "yellow seed." When you studied inheritance, you often were thinking about crosses: two individuals mating to produce offspring. As we study microevolution, we will be backing up to think about how inheritance works within larger groups. You will need to understand and use the following terms: species, population, and gene pool. The illustration below shows an example of how a species, population, and gene pool are related. All humans are members of the same species. A group of people on an island, as shown on the left, make up a population. That same group of people also make up a gene pool. A gene pool is the sum total of all alleles available within a species at a specific location and time. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC In this course we will define a species as a group of organisms whose members can and will breed with each other to produce fertile offspring. A population is all the individuals of the same species that occupy the same area and are likely to breed with one another. Some examples of a population might be all the people that live in your state, all of the frogs that live near a pond, all of the grizzly bears that live in Denali National Park, or all the dandelions that live in your hometown. There are two defining aspects to a population. A population is strictly composed of members of the same species. For example, a population would always consist of people or of grizzly bears, but never of both people and grizzly bears. Second, the members of a population occupy the same area. Scientists define the area based upon the problem they are studying. In evolutionary studies, biologists try to define populations based on actual patterns of breeding, so that individuals most often breed within their population groups; migration and mixing between populations is less frequent. You might wonder how a species and a population are different from one another. Populations are subsets of a species. The dandelions in Boston, Massachusetts and those in Annapolis, Maryland belong to separate populations. They are not likely to breed with one another because their pollen doesn't travel that far. However, the Boston dandelions and the Annapolis dandelions do belong to the same species. They could breed with one another if conditions allowed. For example, breeding could occur if a human being carried dandelion pollen from Boston to Annapolis. The gene pool is all of the genes and alleles present in a population at some point in time. Just as the genotype is the genetic composition of an individual, the gene pool is the genetic composition of a population. Let's assume that there are 125 pea plants in your garden. Seed color in peas is determined by a pair of alleles: a dominant allele determining yellow seed color (which we will designate as Y) and a recessive allele determining green seed color (which we will designate as y). The features of your particular population can be summarized in the table below: Genotype of the Pea Plants Phenotype of the Pea Plants Number of Pea Plants with this Genotype YY yellow seeds 45 (36% of the population) Yy yellow seeds 60 (48% of the population) yy green seeds 20 (16% of the population) The pea plant example only looks at one trait of the plants, seed color, but there are many other genes present in this population. A gene pool includes all of the genes and alleles in a population, not just those for a particular trait. So the gene pool for this pea plant population actually contains genes and alleles that influence thousands of different traits. Some of these traits are visible, such as plant height and flower color. Other genes may determine how resistant the plants are to diseases and pests, how they respond to drought or freezing, and many more features that are important to peas - and to gardeners. What is microevolution? The word evolution means change, and things that change are said to "evolve." These terms are commonly used in our everyday lives (a work project evolves from the original idea to a finished product, people dealing with a tragedy evolve as they learn to cope), but in these settings they have a very different meaning than in biology. In biology, the words evolution and evolve are used in a precise way. These words apply to changes that occur in the gene pool of a population. Evolution occurs in populations, not in individual organisms. In biological terms, for example, individual people don't evolve, but the human race does. When evolution occurs in a population, different alleles (and genotypes) become more or less frequent within the gene pool. As a result, we observe a gradual change in the inherited characteristics of the population as one generation succeeds another. Evolution of corn Over time, a wild grass has evolved to modern corn. Initial corn varieties had small ears with few kernels; modern corn has much larger, fuller ears. These changes were guided by human breeders and are a form of evolution. Source: Nicolle Rager Fuller, National Science Foundation. By Nicolle Rager Fuller, National Science Foundation (Maize) Public Domain Microevolution of an insect population Evolution occurs when an insect population is exposed to an insecticide. In the first generation, one insect (red) contains an allele that makes it resistant to the insecticide. This heritable variation is already present due to past random mutations. When the insecticide is applied, selection occurs: the red insect survives while the majority of the non-resistant insects die off (solid blue arrow). Surviving insects reproduce and generations pass with continued selection due to insecticide use. After generations of adaptation (dashed diagonal arrow) the resistant insects (red) make up a larger portion of the population. The insecticide is less effective against these insects because of the increased proportion of resistant individuals within the population. By Delldot(Wikipedia) (Pest resistance labelled light) CC BY-SA 3.0 Microevolution occurs when the type or frequency of the alleles and genotypes in a population change over one to many generations of time. But what does that actually mean? Let's look at a hypothetical example. We’ll observe two different populations of foxes, one in Maryland and one in Wisconsin. We’ll narrow our focus to a single gene with two alleles that determine coat thickness. And we will visit the populations at two different times. Assume that the dominant allele F produces a thick coat, while the recessive allele f produces a thin coat. Therefore, an FF fox has a heavy coat while an ff fox has a thin coat. As you can see from the Fox population example, evolution is not determined by the increase or decrease in the number of individuals within a population. Both populations saw an increase in the total number of foxes from 1962 to 2202. Microevolution occurs when there are changes in the genetic makeup of the population: when the frequency (percentage) of each genotype changes over time. This example of microevolution covers a few hundred years, but in organisms that have shorter generation times, like bacteria, microevolution can be observed on an even smaller time scale. Antibiotic resistance has become a major problem for the medical community worldwide. Antibiotic Resistance: An Example of Rapid Microevolution Helicobacter pylori (right) is a bacterium that infects the human stomach and causes gastritis, peptic ulcers and gastric cancer. It is spiral shaped and has up to six flagella. By Y tambe(Wikipedia) (Helicobacter pylori diagram) CC BY-SA 3.0 Amoxicillin, tetracycline, metronidazole, and clarithromycin are the four most commonly used antibiotics to treat Helicobacter pylori infections. The bacteria have been developing increased resistance to some of these drugs over the past 20 years. The graph shows the percent resistance to these antibiotics over a twenty year span for a hypothetical country.   Selection Now that we have a better understanding of what microevolution is, we must consider in more detail how microevolution happens. What are the mechanisms that allow for changes in the gene pool over time? In this page we will learn about selection, a central process in evolution. Selection occurs whenever some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others in a given environment. We will discuss three types of selection: natural, sexual, and artificial. Natural Selection Working independently of one another in the 1850s, Charles Darwin and Alfred Wallace were the first scientists to posit the theory of evolution by natural selection. Ideas about evolution had been proposed before, but Darwin and Wallace added a crucial element to the theory: they provided a mechanism for how evolution could work. Natural selection is a process by which nature (i.e. the environment and all of its components) impacts the evolution of a population. Individuals vary in their inherited traits. Those with inherited phenotypes that are better suited to the environment will have a greater likelihood of passing on their genes to subsequent generations. To put it another way, the driving force behind evolution is the interaction of genes and the environment. Sometimes people use the phrase “survival of the fittest” to sum up natural selection. This catchphrase may be helpful, but we encourage you to think carefully. “Survival” is important, but only because it enables reproduction: once they reach reproductive age, some animals and plants literally kill themselves to reproduce. Examples include many salmon and annual plants, which put all of their energy into a single reproductive effort. Second, what do we mean by “fittest”? We don’t mean physical fitness. Evolutionary fitness is based on genes and inheritance and is measured by lifetime reproductive success. The genes of an organism determine many of its features, and these features help determine how likely an organism is to reproduce in its particular environment. There are other factors at work too, including luck: nature does not line up all the individuals in each population and kill them off systematically, leaving only those with the fittest genes to reproduce. Instead, we say that on average the individuals with some phenotypes will reproduce better than others in a given environment. These fitter individuals will be more likely to pass on their alleles (through reproduction) to the next generation. A whitefooted mouse hanging on a tree branch. By NPS (White-footed mouse) Public Domain The length of the tail on the white-footed mouse is related to the habitat in which the mice live. Longer tails provide a support and counterbalance for climbing (as seen in monkeys). In populations of mice that live in forests the average length of the tail is longer; in populations that live in meadows, the average tail length is shorter. While a long tail may be useful when the mice are climbing trees, a long tail on the ground may make it easier for predators to catch the mice. Tail length is heritable in the mice; on average, offspring have tails that are similar in length to those of their parents. Use this information to predict how the average tail length within a population of mice will change in the following scenarios. You are starting with a population of whitefooted mice living in an old forest. The average mouse has a medium-long tail, but there are a range of tail lengths in the population (there is heritable variation). Note also that mice have short gestation times (23-28 days) and mouse pups are weaned in about 28 days, so the generation time for mice is very short. Female mice can have approximately 6 litters a year. General Hint: In natural selection, the traits that are best suited to a given environment have a greater chance of being passed on to future generations and should increase in frequency. Selection occurs whenever some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others in a given environment; in natural selection, the favored types do best because: they survive well and are more likely to reach reproductive age they obtain resources that allow them to produce a large number or quality of offspring The genetic types that reproduce more than others are more likely to pass on their alleles to the next generation. Traits that give an organism a reproductive advantage in a particular environment are called adaptive traits. For a white-footed mouse in a forest, a long tail could be adaptive because it allows a mouse to escape from predators by climbing trees. It could also be adaptive because it allows a mouse to obtain more food. In either case, the result is that the long-tailed mice reproduce more, on average, than other types in the population. Each individual birth or death changes a population’s gene pool by a tiny fraction: some individuals pass on their alleles through reproduction, others do not. This filtering process affects the composition of the gene pool of the population, and ultimately of the species as a whole. Let's return now to our example of the Wisconsin foxes to see how genes and their environment might interact to drive the evolution of a population. Remember that this population evolved, showing a dramatic increase of ff foxes with thin coats from 1962 to 2202: Wisconsin Fox Population Genotype Phenotype Number of Foxes in 1962 Number of Foxes in 2202 FF thick coat 486 (81% of the population) 392 (49% of the population) Ff thick coat 108 (18% of the population) 336 (42% of the population) ff thin coat 6 (1% of the population) 72 (9% of the population) In our fox example it is important to remember that the environment did not change the alleles of individual foxes. The foxes did not all individually lose their coats as the weather got warmer. Instead, the environmental conditions changed the likelihood that a particular set of alleles would be passed from individuals in one generation to their descendants. The environment increased the odds that the f allele would be passed on to the next generation, and decreased the odds that the F allele would be passed on. As a result, the frequency of the FF genotypes in the population's gene pool decreased while the frequency of the ff types increased. We see this change in frequency reflected in an increase in the percentage of foxes in the population that are born with genes for a thin coat (i.e., we observe a change in the frequency of the thin coat phenotype). Evolution takes longer than a lifetime. Second, the warmer climate did not cause a mutation to occur so that thinner coats could exist. Instead, selection is limited to filtering existing variation. Diversity already exists within the alleles of a population and the environment places a selective pressure on that population. The evolution of a population is a reactive and automatic process, not a planned or deliberate one. Sexual selection Sexual selection is a subtype of natural selection. In natural selection, some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others because they are more likely to survive or because they obtain more resources. In sexual selection, some types reproduce more than others because they have traits that allow them to: find or attract more mates choose higher-quality mates win in competitions over mates Can you think of some traits in animals or plants that would increase their likelihood of mating? Here are some examples. Male peafowls (i.e. peacocks) have elaborate tail plumage to attract a mate. By Pruneau(Wikipedia) (Peafowl) CC BY-SA 2.0 Female peafowl are more likely to mate with males that have fuller, more colorful, and more grandiose tail plumage. During mating season, males display their plumage when females are in the area in the hopes of attracting the females for mating. The males with the better tail feathers are more likely to successfully mate and pass on their genes. Male elk grow antlers each year. As the elk age, their antlers get larger and more full with each successive year. These antlers not only help to attract mates, but also allow the elk to fight off rival males. This image shows two male elk sparring during the rut. By FWS (Elk Fighting) Public Domain These are just two examples of many thousands of traits that are driven by natural selection in nature. Whenever the males and females of a species are noticeably different in appearance, sexual selection is probably at work. Some additional examples of sexually selected traits include: birds who perform dances and construct elaborate “bowers” to attract mates male walruses and elephant seals that battle over access to females whales that “sing” haunting mating songs The typical pattern in sexual selection is that males compete with each other for mates; sometimes they do so through displays that are meant to attract females, while in other cases they may battle each other directly. Females tend to choose mates carefully. The perplexing thing about sexual selection is that the showy traits that are used to attract a mate can also interfere with survival. For instance, the elaborate plumage of the peacock can make the males more likely targets for predators. Elk with larger antlers may get them stuck in fences or brambles, which can lead to the untimely death of the stuck elk. And fighting is never good for survival. So why do these dangerous traits exist? First, survival is only a means to an end: individuals that fail to mate have zero fitness, even if they are very good survivors. The gene pool will contain traits of those who have survived, yes, but also of those who have mated successfully. Second, many sexually selected traits (e.g. elaborate plumage, bright colors, large antlers) are known to be indicative of a healthier mate. Males who can “carry off” a good display and a successful battle are also fit in other ways. Females who are choosy are doubly successful in their own reproduction: they produce “sexy sons” who will themselves be successful in mating, and they also produce offspring that are generally healthy. Sexual selection is a powerful force in evolution. To understand the impact of sexual selection consider what happens to the genes of the individual who does not mate. In this image consider twin brothers, Matt and Mark. Mark gets married at the age of 24 while Matt does not. By the time the brothers are 45 years old, Mark has mated and has children. His genes have been passed on to the next generation. When the brothers are 72, Matt is still unmarried and has no children while Mark has grandchildren. In the figure above, Mark’s genes have been passed down to a second generation because his children have mated and have children of their own. Mark is successful evolutionarily speaking and his alleles have become more common through his reproduction and that of his offspring. The evolutionary success of Matt’s genes is zero because he has no offspring. Sexual selection is a powerful driving force within evolution. Artificial Selection Selection occurs whenever some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others in a given environment. In natural selection, the types that succeed are those that survive and/or grow the best. In sexual selection, mating success is key. In artificial selection, humans decide which types reproduce best: we deliberately breed certain individuals with desired traits. Artificial selection is sometimes referred to as selective breeding. It has been in use for thousands of years as humans have domesticated plants and animals to suit their needs. As we discussed at the beginning of this module, corn as we know it today (with large, full ears) has been selectively bred by humans from its wild grass ancestor (with small, sparse ears). In the same way, dairy cows have been selectively bred to produce more milk; beef cattle have been bred to have more muscle; horses have been bred to run faster; tomatoes have been bred to produce larger fruit; and wild mustard has been bred to produce cabbage, Brussels sprouts, kale, broccoli, cauliflower, and kohlrabi. There is perhaps no better example of artificial selection than the domestic dog. Dogs are descended from gray wolves, but after thousands of years of humans directing the breeding of dogs, we have well over one hundred different breeds. There are dogs with good noses that can track game and search for missing persons. Some dogs have been bred to herd or protect domestic animals. Some dog breeds are known for happy personalities and soft fur that make them great companions while others are known for their strength and intelligence which makes them good guard or police dogs. Consider the image below to get a sense of the power of artificial selection. Examples of modern dog breeds all descended from the gray wolf (center). The dogs range in size from less than 10 lb (4.5 kg) to over 100 lb (45 kg). Many of these breeds are now kept as family pets, but their body structures and inherited behavior routines also suit them to many different “jobs” including tracking game, pointing at game birds, retrieving ducks, herding or guarding sheep or cattle, pulling sleds, racing, guarding the home, or catching rats. Selective breeding is not as simple as it may appear. Let’s say you take a dairy cow who is a high milk producer. You mate her with a male who has the red spotted coat you like. Unfortunately, you are not guaranteed to get a female calf who is a high milk producer and has red spots. You are not just dealing with the two traits you desire in a dairy cow (high milk yield and red spots), but every trait (i.e. every allele) that each parent cow has. When you breed these two animals, the offspring will have some combination of all of the parents’ traits. Because of this, it often takes many generations of artificial selection to consistently produce offspring with the desired traits. In the process of selecting for desired traits, undesirable traits often “tag along”, and thus we see an increased likelihood of genetic disorders in many domestic animals. This is a result of inbreeding (mating of individuals that are closely related). For example, inbreeding among dalmatians has resulted in a tendency toward aggressive behavior. Additionally, sometimes selective breeding can magnify a desired trait to such an extreme that it interferes with survival or reproduction. American domestic turkeys have been bred to have larger breast muscles to satisfy consumers’ preference for white meat. As a result of generations of selective breeding, today’s male turkeys are literally too large-chested to mount and copulate with female turkeys. To produce more turkeys, farmers must artificially inseminate females. In this and other examples, selective breeding can produce plant and animal varieties that are totally dependent on our care and intervention, exhibiting traits that would never be adaptive in the wild. Artificial selection is a powerful tool that drives the evolution of domesticated plants and animals, but it is one that must be utilized with great thought and consideration so as to avoid the problems that come with inbreeding. Does it surprise you that farmers and animal breeders need to understand a good deal about biology to be successful in their professions? Working independently of one another in the 1850s, Charles Darwin and Alfred Wallace were the first scientists to posit the theory of evolution by natural selection. Ideas about evolution had been proposed before, but Darwin and Wallace added a crucial element to the theory: they provided a mechanism for how evolution could work. Natural selection is a process by which nature (i.e. the environment and all of its components) impacts the evolution of a population. Individuals vary in their inherited traits. Those with inherited phenotypes that are better suited to the environment will have a greater likelihood of passing on their genes to subsequent generations. To put it another way, the driving force behind evolution is the interaction of genes and the environment. Sometimes people use the phrase “survival of the fittest” to sum up natural selection. This catchphrase may be helpful, but we encourage you to think carefully. “Survival” is important, but only because it enables reproduction: once they reach reproductive age, some animals and plants literally kill themselves to reproduce. Examples include many salmon and annual plants, which put all of their energy into a single reproductive effort. Second, what do we mean by “fittest”? We don’t mean physical fitness. Evolutionary fitness is based on genes and inheritance and is measured by lifetime reproductive success. The genes of an organism determine many of its features, and these features help determine how likely an organism is to reproduce in its particular environment. There are other factors at work too, including luck: nature does not line up all the individuals in each population and kill them off systematically, leaving only those with the fittest genes to reproduce. Instead, we say that on average the individuals with some phenotypes will reproduce better than others in a given environment. These fitter individuals will be more likely to pass on their alleles (through reproduction) to the next generation. A whitefooted mouse hanging on a tree branch. By NPS (White-footed mouse) Public Domain The length of the tail on the white-footed mouse is related to the habitat in which the mice live. Longer tails provide a support and counterbalance for climbing (as seen in monkeys). In populations of mice that live in forests the average length of the tail is longer; in populations that live in meadows, the average tail length is shorter. While a long tail may be useful when the mice are climbing trees, a long tail on the ground may make it easier for predators to catch the mice. Tail length is heritable in the mice; on average, offspring have tails that are similar in length to those of their parents. Use this information to predict how the average tail length within a population of mice will change in the following scenarios. You are starting with a population of whitefooted mice living in an old forest. The average mouse has a medium-long tail, but there are a range of tail lengths in the population (there is heritable variation). Note also that mice have short gestation times (23-28 days) and mouse pups are weaned in about 28 days, so the generation time for mice is very short. Female mice can have approximately 6 litters a year. General Hint: In natural selection, the traits that are best suited to a given environment have a greater chance of being passed on to future generations and should increase in frequency. Selection occurs whenever some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others in a given environment; in natural selection, the favored types do best because: they survive well and are more likely to reach reproductive age they obtain resources that allow them to produce a large number or quality of offspring The genetic types that reproduce more than others are more likely to pass on their alleles to the next generation. Traits that give an organism a reproductive advantage in a particular environment are called adaptive traits. For a white-footed mouse in a forest, a long tail could be adaptive because it allows a mouse to escape from predators by climbing trees. It could also be adaptive because it allows a mouse to obtain more food. In either case, the result is that the long-tailed mice reproduce more, on average, than other types in the population. Each individual birth or death changes a population’s gene pool by a tiny fraction: some individuals pass on their alleles through reproduction, others do not. This filtering process affects the composition of the gene pool of the population, and ultimately of the species as a whole. Let's return now to our example of the Wisconsin foxes to see how genes and their environment might interact to drive the evolution of a population. Remember that this population evolved, showing a dramatic increase of ff foxes with thin coats from 1962 to 2202: Wisconsin Fox Population Genotype Phenotype Number of Foxes in 1962 Number of Foxes in 2202 FF thick coat 486 (81% of the population) 392 (49% of the population) Ff thick coat 108 (18% of the population) 336 (42% of the population) ff thin coat 6 (1% of the population) 72 (9% of the population) In our fox example it is important to remember that the environment did not change the alleles of individual foxes. The foxes did not all individually lose their coats as the weather got warmer. Instead, the environmental conditions changed the likelihood that a particular set of alleles would be passed from individuals in one generation to their descendants. The environment increased the odds that the f allele would be passed on to the next generation, and decreased the odds that the F allele would be passed on. As a result, the frequency of the FF genotypes in the population's gene pool decreased while the frequency of the ff types increased. We see this change in frequency reflected in an increase in the percentage of foxes in the population that are born with genes for a thin coat (i.e., we observe a change in the frequency of the thin coat phenotype). Evolution takes longer than a lifetime. Second, the warmer climate did not cause a mutation to occur so that thinner coats could exist. Instead, selection is limited to filtering existing variation. Diversity already exists within the alleles of a population and the environment places a selective pressure on that population. The evolution of a population is a reactive and automatic process, not a planned or deliberate one. Sexual selection is a subtype of natural selection. In natural selection, some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others because they are more likely to survive or because they obtain more resources. In sexual selection, some types reproduce more than others because they have traits that allow them to: find or attract more mates choose higher-quality mates win in competitions over mates Can you think of some traits in animals or plants that would increase their likelihood of mating? Here are some examples. Male peafowls (i.e. peacocks) have elaborate tail plumage to attract a mate. By Pruneau(Wikipedia) (Peafowl) CC BY-SA 2.0 Female peafowl are more likely to mate with males that have fuller, more colorful, and more grandiose tail plumage. During mating season, males display their plumage when females are in the area in the hopes of attracting the females for mating. The males with the better tail feathers are more likely to successfully mate and pass on their genes. Male elk grow antlers each year. As the elk age, their antlers get larger and more full with each successive year. These antlers not only help to attract mates, but also allow the elk to fight off rival males. This image shows two male elk sparring during the rut. By FWS (Elk Fighting) Public Domain These are just two examples of many thousands of traits that are driven by natural selection in nature. Whenever the males and females of a species are noticeably different in appearance, sexual selection is probably at work. Some additional examples of sexually selected traits include: birds who perform dances and construct elaborate “bowers” to attract mates male walruses and elephant seals that battle over access to females whales that “sing” haunting mating songs The typical pattern in sexual selection is that males compete with each other for mates; sometimes they do so through displays that are meant to attract females, while in other cases they may battle each other directly. Females tend to choose mates carefully. The perplexing thing about sexual selection is that the showy traits that are used to attract a mate can also interfere with survival. For instance, the elaborate plumage of the peacock can make the males more likely targets for predators. Elk with larger antlers may get them stuck in fences or brambles, which can lead to the untimely death of the stuck elk. And fighting is never good for survival. So why do these dangerous traits exist? First, survival is only a means to an end: individuals that fail to mate have zero fitness, even if they are very good survivors. The gene pool will contain traits of those who have survived, yes, but also of those who have mated successfully. Second, many sexually selected traits (e.g. elaborate plumage, bright colors, large antlers) are known to be indicative of a healthier mate. Males who can “carry off” a good display and a successful battle are also fit in other ways. Females who are choosy are doubly successful in their own reproduction: they produce “sexy sons” who will themselves be successful in mating, and they also produce offspring that are generally healthy. Sexual selection is a powerful force in evolution. To understand the impact of sexual selection consider what happens to the genes of the individual who does not mate. In this image consider twin brothers, Matt and Mark. Mark gets married at the age of 24 while Matt does not. By the time the brothers are 45 years old, Mark has mated and has children. His genes have been passed on to the next generation. When the brothers are 72, Matt is still unmarried and has no children while Mark has grandchildren. In the figure above, Mark’s genes have been passed down to a second generation because his children have mated and have children of their own. Mark is successful evolutionarily speaking and his alleles have become more common through his reproduction and that of his offspring. The evolutionary success of Matt’s genes is zero because he has no offspring. Sexual selection is a powerful driving force within evolution. Selection occurs whenever some genetic types in a population reproduce more than others in a given environment. In natural selection, the types that succeed are those that survive and/or grow the best. In sexual selection, mating success is key. In artificial selection, humans decide which types reproduce best: we deliberately breed certain individuals with desired traits. Artificial selection is sometimes referred to as selective breeding. It has been in use for thousands of years as humans have domesticated plants and animals to suit their needs. As we discussed at the beginning of this module, corn as we know it today (with large, full ears) has been selectively bred by humans from its wild grass ancestor (with small, sparse ears). In the same way, dairy cows have been selectively bred to produce more milk; beef cattle have been bred to have more muscle; horses have been bred to run faster; tomatoes have been bred to produce larger fruit; and wild mustard has been bred to produce cabbage, Brussels sprouts, kale, broccoli, cauliflower, and kohlrabi. There is perhaps no better example of artificial selection than the domestic dog. Dogs are descended from gray wolves, but after thousands of years of humans directing the breeding of dogs, we have well over one hundred different breeds. There are dogs with good noses that can track game and search for missing persons. Some dogs have been bred to herd or protect domestic animals. Some dog breeds are known for happy personalities and soft fur that make them great companions while others are known for their strength and intelligence which makes them good guard or police dogs. Consider the image below to get a sense of the power of artificial selection. Examples of modern dog breeds all descended from the gray wolf (center). The dogs range in size from less than 10 lb (4.5 kg) to over 100 lb (45 kg). Many of these breeds are now kept as family pets, but their body structures and inherited behavior routines also suit them to many different “jobs” including tracking game, pointing at game birds, retrieving ducks, herding or guarding sheep or cattle, pulling sleds, racing, guarding the home, or catching rats. Selective breeding is not as simple as it may appear. Let’s say you take a dairy cow who is a high milk producer. You mate her with a male who has the red spotted coat you like. Unfortunately, you are not guaranteed to get a female calf who is a high milk producer and has red spots. You are not just dealing with the two traits you desire in a dairy cow (high milk yield and red spots), but every trait (i.e. every allele) that each parent cow has. When you breed these two animals, the offspring will have some combination of all of the parents’ traits. Because of this, it often takes many generations of artificial selection to consistently produce offspring with the desired traits. In the process of selecting for desired traits, undesirable traits often “tag along”, and thus we see an increased likelihood of genetic disorders in many domestic animals. This is a result of inbreeding (mating of individuals that are closely related). For example, inbreeding among dalmatians has resulted in a tendency toward aggressive behavior. Additionally, sometimes selective breeding can magnify a desired trait to such an extreme that it interferes with survival or reproduction. American domestic turkeys have been bred to have larger breast muscles to satisfy consumers’ preference for white meat. As a result of generations of selective breeding, today’s male turkeys are literally too large-chested to mount and copulate with female turkeys. To produce more turkeys, farmers must artificially inseminate females. In this and other examples, selective breeding can produce plant and animal varieties that are totally dependent on our care and intervention, exhibiting traits that would never be adaptive in the wild. Artificial selection is a powerful tool that drives the evolution of domesticated plants and animals, but it is one that must be utilized with great thought and consideration so as to avoid the problems that come with inbreeding. Does it surprise you that farmers and animal breeders need to understand a good deal about biology to be successful in their professions?   Microevolution: Summary Summary Microevolution is the process by which populations of organisms evolve. It is a change in a population’s gene pool over time, and is an ongoing process. Some of its processes are predictable, but the overall course of evolution cannot be known in advance. Several mechanisms can lead to evolution. The first and most well known is natural selection. Natural selection is at work when certain genetic types in a population survive or grow better than others in a given environment. The environment influences the make-up of the gene pool in natural selection, and the result is often quite predictable. Sexual selection occurs when individuals with certain traits are more likely to obtain mates than other individuals. Sexual selection often leads to the development of extravagant traits in males like the tail feather of peacocks or the elaborate mating flights of hummingbirds. Sexual selection can also entail fighting among males for access to females. This is a powerful force in nature. In contrast to natural and sexual selection, artificial selection involves the direct manipulation of a population’s gene pool through human interference. Humans select individuals who have desired traits for breeding in an effort to enhance and purify those traits within offspring. This technique has been employed for thousands of years and has led to the domestication of crop plants, livestock, ornamental plants, and pets. The great number of varieties you see in these plants and animals is the result of artificial selection. Mutation, gene flow, and genetic drift are additional ways in which evolution can occur. A mutation can add a new allele to a gene pool. Mutations can be useful, detrimental, or neutral (have no impact on fitness). If the environment changes, a particular mutation’s effect on fitness can also change. Gene flow occurs when two gene pools get intermixed due to the migration of individuals from one population to another. The ease of world travel has led to an increase in gene flow among human populations in recent years. Genetic drift is a random change in the frequencies of alleles in a single population’s gene pool. Genetic drift has a large effect when the population is reduced to a small number (survivors in the bottleneck effect, founders in the founder effect). The result is a limited gene pool where some randomly selected alleles will be more or less prominent than in the original gene pool. While all of these mechanisms of microevolution have been discussed as separate entities, it is important to remember that all of these mechanisms are working in concert. As you have seen, understanding the mechanisms of evolution can not only help us to grow better produce or breed better dogs, but it also helps us develop strategies to combat infectious diseases that take their toll on human lives. Evolution is one of the driving forces in the world today and is one of science’s most important Theories. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Artificial selection Gene Flow Gene pool Genetic drift Microevolution Mutation Natural Selection Population Sexual selection Species Quiz Microevolution is the process by which populations of organisms evolve. It is a change in a population’s gene pool over time, and is an ongoing process. Some of its processes are predictable, but the overall course of evolution cannot be known in advance. Several mechanisms can lead to evolution. The first and most well known is natural selection. Natural selection is at work when certain genetic types in a population survive or grow better than others in a given environment. The environment influences the make-up of the gene pool in natural selection, and the result is often quite predictable. Sexual selection occurs when individuals with certain traits are more likely to obtain mates than other individuals. Sexual selection often leads to the development of extravagant traits in males like the tail feather of peacocks or the elaborate mating flights of hummingbirds. Sexual selection can also entail fighting among males for access to females. This is a powerful force in nature. In contrast to natural and sexual selection, artificial selection involves the direct manipulation of a population’s gene pool through human interference. Humans select individuals who have desired traits for breeding in an effort to enhance and purify those traits within offspring. This technique has been employed for thousands of years and has led to the domestication of crop plants, livestock, ornamental plants, and pets. The great number of varieties you see in these plants and animals is the result of artificial selection. Mutation, gene flow, and genetic drift are additional ways in which evolution can occur. A mutation can add a new allele to a gene pool. Mutations can be useful, detrimental, or neutral (have no impact on fitness). If the environment changes, a particular mutation’s effect on fitness can also change. Gene flow occurs when two gene pools get intermixed due to the migration of individuals from one population to another. The ease of world travel has led to an increase in gene flow among human populations in recent years. Genetic drift is a random change in the frequencies of alleles in a single population’s gene pool. Genetic drift has a large effect when the population is reduced to a small number (survivors in the bottleneck effect, founders in the founder effect). The result is a limited gene pool where some randomly selected alleles will be more or less prominent than in the original gene pool. While all of these mechanisms of microevolution have been discussed as separate entities, it is important to remember that all of these mechanisms are working in concert. As you have seen, understanding the mechanisms of evolution can not only help us to grow better produce or breed better dogs, but it also helps us develop strategies to combat infectious diseases that take their toll on human lives. Evolution is one of the driving forces in the world today and is one of science’s most important Theories. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. Artificial selection Gene Flow Gene pool Genetic drift Microevolution Mutation Natural Selection Population Sexual selection Species   Application Spotlight: Model Organisms Model Organisms and Human Health Why does macroevolution matter? Is it just ancient history? Far from it! “Tree thinking” is basic to progress in modern biology. It helps us deal with the vast diversity of life in an organized fashion. We don’t have to start from “square one” with each species of interest. Instead, we can use natural groupings (clades) to our advantage. A phylogenetic perspective can help us deal with threats. When there is an outbreak of food poisoning, genetic analysis can show that the harmful bacteria came from a particular farm. If we are attacked by a new virus, we can compare its genes to those of known pathogens. Once we place the virus within a clade, we can quickly get a handle on what we’re facing, how it is likely to affect us, and how we can best combat it. Phylogenetics can also help us get the most out of helpful species. You may be surprised to learn that the familiar daffodil is a plant with medicinal potential. Although daffodils are poisonous, drugs might be developed from chemicals that can be extracted from the plant. One wild daffodil species in Spain (Narcissus confusus) has been found to contain a chemical that slows the progression of Alzheimer’s disease and another that inhibits replication of HIV, the AIDS virus. Narcissus confusus (inset) in its habitat in Spain. Daffodils are poisonous but drugs might be developed from chemicals extracted or modified from those found in the plant. Photos by A. Barra, CC BY 3.0. Based on these discoveries, scientists are interested in learning more about the chemistry and therapeutic potential of daffodils. But where to look? There are up to 150 different species of Narcissus and countless varieties. It would be inefficient and much too costly to do a full analysis on every species. Instead, researchers are using “tree thinking” to narrow down the search. Future testing will focus on close relatives of species that are already known to be chemically rich. A second principle of macroevolution, common ancestry, is important for another reason. Medical research focuses on the biology of humans. But let’s face it: humans make terrible study subjects. We live too long, take up too much space, and have too many inalienable rights to be of much use in the lab! Therefore biomedical researchers also study other species as far-flung as worms, fruit flies, mice, fish, or rhesus monkeys. They can tell us a great deal about our bodies, our genes, and even our diseases. Why? Because these species have many inherited features that are very similar to our own. When we learn something about a worm or a wallaby, we learn more about ourselves in the process. Below we summarize just a few examples of the power of this approach. Discovery in Model Organism Application to Humans A microscopic view of a fission yeast culture. Image by David O. Morgan, The Cell Cycle: Principles of Control. No Restriction. Proteins that control cell division were discovered in the 1970s through research in yeast (single-celled fungi) and sea urchins. Roles of cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) were found by studying mutant yeast strains with unusual patterns of cell division. A young girl receiving chemotherapy. National Cancer Institute, Bill Branson (Photographer). Public Domain Cell cycle controls are lost or disrupted in cancer. Several drugs known as CDK inhibitors have been developed for use in chemotherapy as seen above. Continued research in yeast, mice, and humans is being used to refine and improve these treatments. Image by Bob Goldstein, UNC Chapel Hill. CC BY-SA 3.0 Microscopic roundworms (C. elegans) normally live for 3 weeks. Those with mutations in certain genes can live twice as long. Naples (1890s) Old couple. Photo in public domain. One of the genes identified in C. elegans FOXO) has an allele that is associated with long life in humans. Several related proteins work in a pathway that involves insulin signaling; therapies that target this pathway may help extend healthy lifespan in humans. A knockout mouse (left) that is a model of obesity, compared with a normal mouse. Image by Lexicon Genetics Incorporated, Public Domain. Thousands of strains of laboratory mice show specific diseases and disorders like the obese mouse (left) compared to a normal phenotype mouse above. Research on obese mice led to the discovery of leptin, a hormone involved in the regulation of hunger. Illustration of obesity and waist circumference. From left to right, the "healthy" man has a 33 inch (84 cm) waist, the "overweight" man a 45 inch (114 cm) waist, and the "obese" man a 60 inch (152cm) waist. Infographic: FDA/Renée Gordon. Public Domain.(1) Some obese humans produce too little leptin or have nonfunctional leptin receptors in their brains, and thus are prone to overeating. Drugs may help restore healthy appetite control in some of these people. References / To Learn More: Willcox, B.J. and others. 2008. FOXO3A genotype is strongly associated with human longevity. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 105: 13987-13992. Spencer, G. 2002. Background on mouse as a model organism. National Human Genome Research Institute website. Partridge, L. and others. 2011. The new science of ageing. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London Biological Sciences 366: 6-8. National Science Foundation / American Museum of Natural History. 2000. Assembling the Tree of Life: Harnessing Life’s History to Benefit Science and Society. Why does macroevolution matter? Is it just ancient history? Far from it! “Tree thinking” is basic to progress in modern biology. It helps us deal with the vast diversity of life in an organized fashion. We don’t have to start from “square one” with each species of interest. Instead, we can use natural groupings (clades) to our advantage. A phylogenetic perspective can help us deal with threats. When there is an outbreak of food poisoning, genetic analysis can show that the harmful bacteria came from a particular farm. If we are attacked by a new virus, we can compare its genes to those of known pathogens. Once we place the virus within a clade, we can quickly get a handle on what we’re facing, how it is likely to affect us, and how we can best combat it. Phylogenetics can also help us get the most out of helpful species. You may be surprised to learn that the familiar daffodil is a plant with medicinal potential. Although daffodils are poisonous, drugs might be developed from chemicals that can be extracted from the plant. One wild daffodil species in Spain (Narcissus confusus) has been found to contain a chemical that slows the progression of Alzheimer’s disease and another that inhibits replication of HIV, the AIDS virus. Narcissus confusus (inset) in its habitat in Spain. Daffodils are poisonous but drugs might be developed from chemicals extracted or modified from those found in the plant. Photos by A. Barra, CC BY 3.0. Based on these discoveries, scientists are interested in learning more about the chemistry and therapeutic potential of daffodils. But where to look? There are up to 150 different species of Narcissus and countless varieties. It would be inefficient and much too costly to do a full analysis on every species. Instead, researchers are using “tree thinking” to narrow down the search. Future testing will focus on close relatives of species that are already known to be chemically rich. A second principle of macroevolution, common ancestry, is important for another reason. Medical research focuses on the biology of humans. But let’s face it: humans make terrible study subjects. We live too long, take up too much space, and have too many inalienable rights to be of much use in the lab! Therefore biomedical researchers also study other species as far-flung as worms, fruit flies, mice, fish, or rhesus monkeys. They can tell us a great deal about our bodies, our genes, and even our diseases. Why? Because these species have many inherited features that are very similar to our own. When we learn something about a worm or a wallaby, we learn more about ourselves in the process. Below we summarize just a few examples of the power of this approach.   Phylogenetics: Building A Tree of Life You have probably noticed certain features that “run in families:” dark curly hair, an oddly shaped ear, bushy eyebrows, freckles... Siblings are often similar in appearance because they have inherited their genes from a common source. In evolutionary biology, the same principle is extended to related lineages. Species with a recent common ancestor are close relatives, like brother and sister. Their lineages split apart not too long ago. Other species are much more distantly related, like second cousins. They can be traced to a common ancestor, but this ancestor lived very long ago. We can tell their degree of relationship by looking at homologous features: shared features that were inherited from the same source and reflect common ancestry. Two species that are closely related share many homologous features. Species that are distantly related share only a few. Not every similarity between two species is homologous. We are looking for features that were inherited from a common source. Therefore the features should be based in genes (not acquired through learning, for example). Homologous features will also be similar in their details; there should be more than a passing resemblance. An analogy might help you to recognize what we’re getting at here. Two students are brought into a professor’s office. They are shown their term papers, side by side. Bill’s paper begins: “Phylogenetic biology is the exhaustive comparison of taxonomic units in an attempt to elucidate the ancestral relationships among all life forms on the planet Earth.” Sarah’s paper starts with the exact same sentence. At several points, the papers have identical or extremely similar wording. The students are charged with plagiarism. Both claim to have written their own papers. After all, the professor asked for a paper on phylogenetic biology, so of course the papers will be similar! The professor counters this with a quick calculation: the odds that two students’ papers would have such similar language by chance are one in several trillion. The academic integrity board agrees: either one student copied from the other, or they both copied language from the same outside source. In biology, the same sorts of judgments are made about similarities among species. When inherited features are very similar in their details, biologists assume they were likely inherited from a common source. One classic example involves the skeletal structure of vertebrates. Color-coded homologous features of vertebrate forelimbs. Forelimbs serve different functions in humans (arm), dogs (front leg), birds (wing), and whales (flipper). Yet their underlying structure is similar. Here the major bone categories are matched by color. Notice that the digits (“finger bones”) are partially fused in dogs; in the bird the digits are more extensively fused and reshaped. By Волков Владислав Петрович (Homology vertebrates) CC0 1.0 It seems unlikely that these four animals (not to mention thousands of others) would develop such similar limb structures by chance. It also does not appear to be necessary. Why should a whale flipper have embedded fingers, wrist bones, and three major limb bones? If adaptive evolution was starting “from scratch,” it might “design” a flipper with just a few bony plates. Instead, evidence supports the idea that all four-limbed vertebrates descend from a common ancestor; they all inherit their curious and specific arrangement of limb bones from that source. In separate lineages, adaptation has reshaped the limbs and suited them to very different functions. At first glance, a whale flipper and a hummingbird wing have little in common, but the details of the structures point to shared ancestry. Let’s take a moment to assess your understanding of homologous features. Homologous Molecules and Cellular Structures It is not just four-limbed animals that are related. According to current evolutionary thinking, all life on Earth is related by ancestry. You, a bacterium, a fly, a fern, and a Portabello mushroom all belong to a single clade. To some, this is a difficult or even preposterous concept. What could you and a bacterium or mushroom possibly have in common? And if you do have something in common, why do biologists think it was inherited from the same source? We may look very different, but unifying features are evident within our cells. For example, all cells contain DNA. And to make use of their genes, all cells have ribosomes: clusters of protein and RNA that carry out the synthesis of proteins. A model of the small subunit of the ribosome in Thermus thermophilus, a bacterium that lives in hot springs. The structure shown is composed of RNA (pink) and proteins (blue). In a functioning ribosome, this unit is paired with a larger structure. By David S. Goodsell, RCSB Protein Data Bank (10 small subunit) Public Domain Every cell has ribosomes, but each organism’s ribosomes are built according to a slightly different set of specifications. Here, then, is a characteristic that we can compare and contrast among every single living species. That is just what Carl Woese, a microbiologist at the University of Illinois, set out to do in the 1970s. He obtained gene sequences for ribosomes of a wide range of species. He focused on part of the small subunit, shown above for one species of heat-loving bacterium. Amazingly, he could line up matching gene sequences (long series of the nucleotide bases A,G,C,T) among various microbes, plants, animal, and fungi. This was painstaking work, done without the aid of modern computers and software. In 1990 Woese published a paper proposing a change in the classification system. He reported that there were consistent differences in ribosomal gene sequences among three major groups. Above the level of Kingdom, he proposed three Domains of life. Two of them are made up of prokaryotes (Bacteria and Archaea). The third is called Eukarya and includes all organisms whose cells have nuclei, including fungi, animals, plants, and several groups of protists. Woese’s data have since been greatly expanded, and the new data are consistent with the idea that the three Domains are the first three branches on a unified tree of life. Why do scientists think that the chemical similarities of cells reflect shared ancestry? As with vertebrate limb structure, the genetic similarities among life forms are more than a passing resemblance. DNA sequences are detailed, complex, and contain a great deal of information. In a court of law, DNA evidence can be used to tie a suspect to a crime scene sample: it is extremely unlikely that two long DNA sequences would show an exact match unless they came from the same source. In evolutionary biology, the same sort of reasoning applies: long chunks of DNA sequences match closely among species and are evidence for shared ancestry. Thus we can now analyze inherited characteristics that have been present for not just millions but billions of years. In these ancient gene sequences we see the deepest roots of the tree of life. Homologous features are the key sources of information for the construction of phylogenetic trees. A phylogenetic tree, or phylogeny, is a diagram that shows how a biological lineage may have branched and formed clades over time. A tree diagram is a hypothesis about how different species are related and is subject to change as more data are gathered and as analysis techniques improve. To get a feel for how phylogenetic trees work and what they mean, do the following activity. Below is a Table that shows how characteristics are distributed among five species. The species are not arranged in any particular order. Tiger Salamander Green Sea Turtle Human Common Carp House Mouse AMNION? NO YES YES NO YES FOUR LIMBS? YES YES YES NO YES SPINE and SKULL? YES YES YES YES YES MAMMARY GLANDS? NO NO YES NO YES The amnion is a membrane that surrounds the developing embryo in some animals. Mammary glands are specialized skin glands that produce milk for developing offspring. The rest of the characteristics are self-explanatory. All of them are inherited characteristics. As you have learned, shared characteristics can be used to organize species into groups, with clades defined by unique inherited traits. Unfortunately, this procedure is often quite difficult: there are millions of species to organize and an infinite number of possible characteristics to compare! Many traits may be lost or reversed over time. Consider the examples of tetrapods with one or both pairs of limbs reduced or missing (snakes, some lizards, whales and dolphins, manatees, seals, etc.). Some changes also occur quite predictably as adaptations to special environments. In the Arctic, foxes, birds, mink, hares, bears, and more all have snow-white winter coats or feathers. They are not closely related and did not all inherit their winter coloration from a common ancestor. Instead, “snow white winter color” developed independently in each of these lineages at different times and starting with different mutations. Unlike many physical or behavioral traits, DNA sequences are an excellent source of data on relationships. By looking at DNA, biologists have a way to directly and objectively compare inherited information. For example, virtually all eukaryote species have a gene in their mitochondria that codes for cytochrome C oxidase, an enzyme that is vital to the process of aerobic respiration. This widespread gene is quite similar in most species, but mutations do occur and tend to be preserved within a lineage. Subunit 2 is a portion of the cytochrome C oxidase protein; its gene is composed of about 700 nucleotide base pairs. What does this gene say about the relationships among Carp, Salamander, Sea Turtle, Human, and Mouse? The image below gives a glimpse of the data. Comparison of cytochrome C oxidase subunit 2 for Common Carp, Tiger Salamander, Green Sea Turtle, Human, and House Mouse. Highlighted nucleotides are identical for at least 4 of the 5 species. The image shows only the first 100 bases in the sequence; the full sequence contains a total of almost 700 bases. Image generated using Geneious software v5.6, http://www.geneious.com As you can see, there is a great deal of similarity in this gene among the five species. This shouldn’t be too surprising: they are all vertebrate animals, close relatives in the grand scheme of life’s diversity. There are clearly sections of the gene where all the bases tend to agree; other regions show more differences. Do the differences between the genes match our expectations about how Carp, Salamander, Sea Turtle, Human, and Mouse are related? It is not easy for a human to sort through the sequences and count differences one by one, but a computer can complete this task in a flash. Below is a summary of how the full gene sequence for each species compares to that of the Common Carp: Tiger Salamander 162 differences 76% identical to Carp Green Sea Turtle 176 differences 74% identical to Carp House Mouse 200 differences 71% identical to Carp Human 229 differences 67% identical to Carp At least from the Carp’s perspective, the genetic data agree with our tree: the Tiger Salamander is Carp’s closest match; Sea Turtle is in between; and Mouse and Human are more distant! Using modern computers and a variety of analytical techniques, biologists can now compare vast amounts of genetic data among hundreds or even thousands of species. They can sometimes even include DNA sequence data extracted from fossils! The result has been a huge improvement in our ability to identify the clades within the tree of life. Tree of life based on ribosomal gene sequences. Each branch shown is a clade containing many species. Life is categorized in three Domains: Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya. Ancient lineages of prokaryotes (Bacteria and Archaea) differ significantly in their ribosomal genes. Within Eukarya are a diversity of protists, along with the close relatives we know as fungi, animals, and plants. By NASA Astrobiology Institute (Phylogenetic tree) Public Domain To Learn More Tree of Life web project: http://tolweb.org/tree/ Travels in the Great Tree of Life, Peabody Museum: http://archive.peabody.yale.edu/exhibits/treeoflife/index.html Wellcome Trust Tree of Life website: http://www.wellcometreeoflife.org/   Speciation Speciation is the formation of new species. We will assume in this course that a species is a biological lineage, although there can be considerable debate among biologists about how species are best defined in practice. How can new species form? Recall that changes that occur in the genetic makeup of one lineage do not directly influence the genetics of another lineage as we move forward through time. Therefore speciation is the establishment of a new group that does not exchange individuals or genes with its source lineage. What could break up a biological lineage? Species can form if they are isolated from the source lineage by geography. This is called allopatric speciation. Allopatric translates to “different country.” Species may also form through genetic or other changes that create a subgroup within a lineage that does not breed or exchange individuals with the source population. A new species “pops up” right within, and surrounded by, its parent species. This is called sympatric speciation (translates to “same-country”). Allopatric speciation begins when populations are separated in space by some kind of geographic barrier. It can occur if geological changes break a species’ range into separate “islands” of habitat. The diagram below illustrates this process: Allopatric speciation can occur if a geologic change creates a barrier to dispersal (movement). The barrier stops or greatly reduces gene flow between groups of populations. As they evolve independently, the groups diverge, eventually forming separate species. Allopatric speciation can occur in another way as well: through long-distance dispersal and colonization of a new habitat. We can see the result of this process in islands far out at sea: a few hardy colonists “make it” to an island to start a population; after many generations they are distinct from their cousins on the mainland. This mechanism is illustrated in the diagram below: Allopatric speciation can occur if a few individuals manage to disperse over a barrier and start a new population that is distant from the source species. As they evolve independently, the groups diverge, eventually forming separate species. The map of the world is a jigsaw puzzle of broken-up habitats (continents, oceans, islands, mountain ranges, lakes, caves, river systems, forests, deserts...) occupied by different regional or local species. Allopatric speciation helps us make sense of these patterns: as Earth’s landscapes were reshaped and broken up by geologic processes, living lineages also became separated and diverged into locally adapted species. In some cases many closely-related species all live in the same geographic area and there is no known barrier that divides them today or in the recent geologic past. These species likely formed through sympatric speciation, which occurs without help from a physical barrier to dispersal. The diagram below shows a general model for sympatric speciation: Sympatric speciation occurs when a subgroup arises within a species. It lives in the same area but does not breed freely with the original species. Eventually the subgroup may diverge enough to become a separate species. How could sympatric speciation happen? The drive to reproduce generally maintains the integrity of species by assuring that all their populations will exchange genes with each other. Sympatric speciation goes against this tendency; it requires the formation of a group of finicky, “cliquish” breeders. Most of the well-known examples involve genetic errors that produce offspring with extra chromosomes, a condition known as polyploidy. Sometimes polyploid types form new species that can breed with each other but are incompatible with the original species. Second, changes in ecology and breeding habits can also isolate a group within a species. Apple maggot flies (Rhagoletis pomonella) on domestic apple (left) and on much smaller native hawthorn fruits (right). Flies that emerge from a given host generally return to mate and lay eggs on the same type of fruit. To Learn More: Hoeck, P.E.A. and others. 2010. Differentiation with drift: a spatio-temporal genetic analysis of Galápagos mockingbird populations (Mimus spp.) Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London B Biological Sciences 365: 1127–1138. doi:10.1098/rstb.2009.0311   Macroevolution: Summary Module Summary Macroevolution is a long-term process and includes the origin and extinction of species and larger taxonomic groups. Lineages (often the same as species) are collections of populations that evolve independently of each other. Lineages split through a process called speciation. Sometimes speciation occurs when populations are separated in space (allopatric speciation) but it also may occur without physical barriers (sympatric speciation). Clades are complete collections of species that all trace back to a common ancestor. A few closely related species may form a clade (spoonbills), but on a much grander scale all life is a single clade descended from only one or a few early cell types. Biologists assign species to clades based on homologous structures and genes. Homologous features are detailed, genetic or genetically-based similarities that are best explained as the outcome of shared ancestry. All species share a few basic cellular features that were inherited from one or a few early cell types. More closely related groups of animal or plant species have similar body structures such as the limb bone arrangements seen in modern tetrapod (four-limbed) animals. Through careful analysis of many different characteristics, biologists create phylogenetic tree diagrams that represent hypotheses about how life’s clades have evolved over time. DNA sequences are a particularly valuable and rich source of data that help in building such trees. Macroevolutionary thinking can be helpful in many practical ways. It can help us deal more intelligently with diverse life forms: organisms within a clade are similar and we can predict a lot about a species if we can map it to a particular group. This comes in handy when we face a new threat or when we are searching for species with helpful characteristics. We can also learn about ourselves by studying model organisms as different as yeast, worms, and mice. If life’s diversity were not linked by ancestry, each new species would be as unfamiliar and mysterious to us as an alien from another galaxy. Indeed, we would be aliens on a planet full of alien life forms. Instead, we are surrounded by - and part of - a great extended family of life. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. allopatric speciation biological lineage clade homologous features macroevolution phylogenetic tree speciation sympatric speciation Review the concepts above and the key terms for this Module; then take the Module Quiz. Macroevolution is a long-term process and includes the origin and extinction of species and larger taxonomic groups. Lineages (often the same as species) are collections of populations that evolve independently of each other. Lineages split through a process called speciation. Sometimes speciation occurs when populations are separated in space (allopatric speciation) but it also may occur without physical barriers (sympatric speciation). Clades are complete collections of species that all trace back to a common ancestor. A few closely related species may form a clade (spoonbills), but on a much grander scale all life is a single clade descended from only one or a few early cell types. Biologists assign species to clades based on homologous structures and genes. Homologous features are detailed, genetic or genetically-based similarities that are best explained as the outcome of shared ancestry. All species share a few basic cellular features that were inherited from one or a few early cell types. More closely related groups of animal or plant species have similar body structures such as the limb bone arrangements seen in modern tetrapod (four-limbed) animals. Through careful analysis of many different characteristics, biologists create phylogenetic tree diagrams that represent hypotheses about how life’s clades have evolved over time. DNA sequences are a particularly valuable and rich source of data that help in building such trees. Macroevolutionary thinking can be helpful in many practical ways. It can help us deal more intelligently with diverse life forms: organisms within a clade are similar and we can predict a lot about a species if we can map it to a particular group. This comes in handy when we face a new threat or when we are searching for species with helpful characteristics. We can also learn about ourselves by studying model organisms as different as yeast, worms, and mice. If life’s diversity were not linked by ancestry, each new species would be as unfamiliar and mysterious to us as an alien from another galaxy. Indeed, we would be aliens on a planet full of alien life forms. Instead, we are surrounded by - and part of - a great extended family of life. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. allopatric speciation biological lineage clade homologous features macroevolution phylogenetic tree speciation sympatric speciation Review the concepts above and the key terms for this Module; then take the Module Quiz.   What is Macroevolution? Thus far, we have been exploring how subtle changes can occur within a population. We’ve seen that these changes can lead to adaptation. The genetic makeup of populations also can change through migration and interbreeding (gene flow) and even through the vagaries of chance (genetic drift). But how does this relate to macroevolution? For example, can microevolution possibly explain the origin of new and different species? Macroevolution is a long-term process and includes the origin and extinction of species and larger taxonomic groups. However, each and every event of macroevolution occurs through the processes of microevolution you just studied. The two processes are continuous and are part of a unified whole. As you should recall, microevolution occurs at the population level. But a population is only a part of a larger collection that we refer to here as a biological lineage. A lineage is a group of populations that evolves independently of other groups. Members of the same lineage can move between its populations. Mating may occur between members of different populations in the same lineage. Lineages change as their member populations evolve and exchange genes and individuals with each other. To get a clearer sense for the nature of a biological lineage, do the Learn By Doing activity below. To recap, a lineage is a group of populations that can exchange genes and individuals and that evolves as a unit as shown in the Figure below. The lineage evolves through changes that occur in its component populations. Evolution within a biological lineage. Within a biological lineage, evolution occurs as the component populations evolve. The diagram shows evolution of a biological lineage starting at an arbitrary reference point (“baseline generation”). Each chevron represents a snapshot of the lineage at one point in time. Circles (A-F) represent populations of various sizes linked by gene flow (white lines). Population (A) goes extinct. A mutation produces a new adaptive trait that spreads first through population E, then moves through gene flow to the remaining populations. In practice, biologists often use the term “species” to describe a biological lineage. The definition of “species” you learned earlier in this Unit fits the idea of a lineage. Consider the Roseate Spoonbill (Platalea ajaja). These birds use their sensitive, flat bills to capture small animal prey in shallow water. There are populations of Roseate Spoonbill in coastal and wetland areas within South America, Central America, and the U.S. Gulf Coast. Individual Spoonbills can move from one population to another, taking their genes and adaptive traits with them. Changes in the genetic makeup of one population can affect the genetic makeup of other populations over time, so the species as a whole evolves as a unit. Yet the evolution of the Roseate Spoonbill does not affect the genetic makeup of other bird species. Five additional species of Spoonbill live in different parts of Africa, Australia, and Eurasia. Each is a distinct biological lineage. Roseate Spoonbill, Platalea ajaja. By John James Audubon (Roseate Spoonbill) Public domain Speciation is the formation of new biological lineages. It occurs when an existing species splits or branches into two or more new species that evolve independently of each other. Over very long periods of time, repeated branching of a lineage can create groups of related species called clades. A clade is a complete group of all species that descend from some common ancestor. The six species of Spoonbill form a clade; all of them share unique adaptive traits not found in other birds, most notably the distinctive bill. They all likely descended from a single ancestral species that possessed these unique features. Two additional members of the Spoonbill clade, genus Platalea. Royal Spoonbill (left), Eurasian Spoonbill (right). All spoonbill species have a similar bill shape and mode of feeding, but species vary in distribution, behavior, genetics, coloration, structure, and plumage. Left image by Fir0002(Wikipedia) (Royal Spoonbill mouth open) GFDL 1.2. Right image by Andreas Trepte (Eurasian Spoonbill) CC BY-SA 2.5. In the early 1700s, Carolus Linnaeus established the modern system for naming and classifying organisms. In it, species are placed in nested groups based on their shared characteristics. Species correspond to biological lineages. Higher levels of classification are the genus, family, order, class, phylum, and kingdom. Each level is nested within the next higher level; all members of a genus, for example, are members of the same family, order, and so on. Below, the Linnaean hierarchy is shown for the Roseate Spoonbill. Table 2.Linnean classification is a system of nested groups. Species Platalea ajaja Roseate Spoonbill One lineage, many populations Genus Platalea Spoonbills One clade containing 6 related species Family Threskiornithidae Ibises and Spoonbills One clade containing 13 related genera Order Pelecaniformes Herons, Ibises, and Pelicans One clade containing 5 related families Class Aves Birds One clade containing 33 related orders Phylum Chordata chordates One clade containing 14 related classes Kingdom Animalia animals One clade containing 36 related phyla, millions of species How does this classification system relate to macroevolution? Today, biologists strive to place closely related species (members of a clade) within the same taxonomic groups. We hypothesize that the members of a genus had a recent common ancestor; members of genera within a family can be traced to an earlier common ancestor; and so forth. Thus the taxonomic system is not merely a convenient way to organize species. It partly reflects our understanding of how biological diversity has evolved over time. The idea of common ancestry is very strongly supported by many lines of evidence. Like plagiarized term papers, our genes contain many sequences that closely match those in other species. Body structures and patterns of embryological development tell the same story. And fossils provide a historic record of the traits of our ancestors. You will see some such evidence in this Module. To Learn More / Credits: All taxonomic data based on current status in the Integrated Taxonomic Information System, http://www.itis.gov/ 