5. [u'biology', u'biological', u'biologically']
   Introduction to Modern Biology Welcome to the OLI version of Modern Biology. This introductory course is called "Modern Biology" because it is focused on topics at the forefront of experimentation in the fields of cellular biology, molecular biology, biochemistry, and genetics. It is carefully planned to provide the background students will need for advanced biology classes. Students from other disciplines may also find this course useful as it explains many of the concepts and techniques currently discussed in the popular press and applied in other contexts. Fluorescent image of a living mouse cell This is a mouse tissue culture cell showing the cytoskeletal structure. The large clearing in the center is the nucleus. Image courtesy of Jon Jarvik, Department of Biological Sciences, Carnegie Mellon University. An image of a living mouse cell in culture is shown above. As the cell adheres to the bottom of the culture dish it spreads out exploring the local environment giving it the angular shape. The cell can move, utilize energy, and divide to produce new cells. During this course you will explore the fundamentals of how a cell is able to carry out each of these processes. Modern biology is about the molecular events that occur inside a cell: the making of proteins, the building of cellular structures, and the interaction of a cell with its environment. This Modern Biology course is built around several key concepts that provide unifying explanations for how and why structures are formed and processes occur in a biological system. Because it is not possible to cover the breadth of modern molecular biology in one semester, an understanding of these key concepts will provide a basis for extension of your knowledge to biological systems beyond the specific topics covered in this course. One of the major goals of the course therefore is for you to not only learn the fundamentals of the concepts but also to recognize how they can be applied in other contexts. Several key concepts include: Bioselectivity Energy Equilibrium Ionic State Regulation Solubility Correlation of Structure and Function The course is organized into units covering the areas of basic biochemistry, cell biology, and molecular and cellular function. The first unit introduces the basic chemistry of a cell. All other units will rely heavily on the concepts and background introduced in this unit. You are encouraged to master this material before proceeding to the other units. Before you begin you may want to read the General Instructions about the course.   Introduction to Biology: Definitions and Key Terms Atom The basic unit of an element that retains the properties of that element. The diagram below represents an atom of lithium. Biotic Classification of matter that is considered living. Common characteristics of biotic things are that they: use energy and raw materials to survive, sense and respond to changing environments, grow and reproduce and consist of one or more cells. Cell The smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life. Cells are made up of organelles, molecules, atoms, and subatomic particles organized in a very precise way Chemistry The study of atoms and how they interact. Understanding the basic principles of chemistry is vitally important in studying biology, as many biological interactions involve chemistry.   Unit Summary: Biology, the Science of Life In this Unit you’ve learned what biology is and how it fits into science and society. Biology is a science focused on life. It provides us with many practical benefits involving health, environmental issues, and much more. For example, understanding life at its many levels can help improve medical treatments or predict how ecosystems will respond to global warming. This course will focus on some of the foundations of biology: chemistry, cells, and metabolism. In the past, life was recognized in animals and plants but microscopic life forms were unknown. Today, our definition of life centers on the cell. This structure is the basic unit of organization for all life forms, large and small. In addition to being made of cells, known life grows using raw materials and energy, reproduces using DNA as its genetic material, and senses and responds to changes in the external environment. Viruses, because they depend on cells for their reproduction, do not fully meet this definition of “life.” Knowledge of bacteria and their cell biology has allowed major advances in public health and medicine. For example, we now can selectively use antibiotics to control infectious bacterial diseases. These drugs cannot be used against viruses and their misuse can lead to the evolution of resistance among bacteria. Biology takes place over a huge range of scales in space and time. A complete understanding of biology requires an interdisciplinary approach. In particular, concepts from chemistry and physics are required to explain biological systems at many levels. Each level takes on unique emergent properties that arise from complex interactions at lower levels. Life itself is an emergent property: when atoms and molecules are organized in a particular way, a living (biotic) cell is generated that is capable of growth and reproduction. The properties of tissues and organs emerge from interactions among cells; tissues and organs combine to form an organism; and multiple organisms give rise to populations, communities, and complex ecosystems. A key feature of biology, as well as all other sciences, is that our understanding of biology has developed through the application of the scientific method. In science, doubt is a celebrated value and evidence takes the form of verifiable observations. Based on existing knowledge and observations, scientists form one or more hypotheses on how a system works. Hypotheses are tested by analyzing data from experiments or observations to determine whether the hypothesis is supported by the data. A non-scientific claim is a hypothesis that cannot be effectively tested by verifiable observations or experiments. Before you attempt the following quiz, ask yourself these questions. If the answer to any of them is “no,” go back and review to improve your confidence: Can I define biology in my own words and explain why it is important to society? Can I list the four characteristics of life and identify an item as biotic or abiotic based on these characteristics? Can I order the levels of biological study and identify the location of viruses in this hierarchy? Can I identify examples of the misuse of antibiotics and predict what will happen as a result? Can I identify a claim as scientific or non-scientific and explain my reasoning? If given a description of an experiment, can I identify the control group, experimental group, independent variable, and dependent variable? Do I understand how sample size helps determine whether the outcome of an experiment is significant?   Unit Summary: Biology — The Science of Life In this unit you have learned what biology is and how it fits into science and society. Biology is a science focused on life. It provides us with many practical benefits involving health, environmental issues, and much more. For example, understanding life at its many levels can help improve medical treatments or predict how ecosystems will respond to global warming. This course will focus on some of the foundations of biology: chemistry, cells, and metabolism. In the past, life was recognized in animals and plants but microscopic life forms were unknown. Today, our definition of life centers on the cell. This structure is the basic unit of organization for all life forms, large and small. In addition to being made of cells, life grows using raw materials and energy, reproduces using DNA as its genetic material, and senses and responds to changes in the external environment. Viruses, because they depend on cells for their reproduction, do not fully meet this definition of “life.” Knowledge of bacteria and their cell biology has allowed major advances in public health and medicine. For example, we now can selectively use antibiotics to control infectious bacterial diseases. These drugs cannot be used against viruses, and their misuse can lead to the evolution of resistance among bacteria. The study of biology, the science of life, takes us through both time and space. You have learned about evolution, which occurs (and is still occurring) over a huge span of time. You have learned about micro-organisms and species that cannot be seen without a microscope as well as species of great size, like redwood trees. To best understand biology, you need to apply an “interdisciplinary approach.” For example, concepts from chemistry and physics are both required to explain biological systems at many levels. Each level of “life” has unique emergent properties that arise from complex interactions at lower levels. Even life itself is an emergent property. When atoms and molecules are organized in a particular way, a living (biotic) cell is generated that is capable of growth and reproduction. The properties of tissues and organs emerge from interactions among cells; tissues and organs combine to form an organism; and multiple organisms give rise to populations, communities, and complex ecosystems. A key feature of biology, as well as all other sciences, is that our understanding of biology has developed through the application of scientific inquiry. In science, doubt is a celebrated value and evidence takes the form of verifiable observations. Based on existing knowledge and observations, scientists form one or more hypotheses on how a system works. Hypotheses are tested by analyzing data from experiments or observations to determine whether the hypothesis is supported by the data. A nonscientific claim is a hypothesis that cannot be effectively tested by verifiable observations or experiments. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self assessment activity. In this activity, you will have the chance to rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.   Themes in Biology This module will introduce themes that re-occur throughout the study of biology. Science as a process of inquiry Science as a driving force in society Structure determines function: (a) Structural hierarchy; (b) Emergent properties Living things are made of cells Flow of energy nteraction with the environment Reproduction and growth Evolution Interdependence of living organisms Development of this course page is in progress. Check back later.   Recurrent Themes Throughout the study of biology, several themes emerge. These recurrent concepts will continually appear as we delve deeper into the scientific study of life. As we progress through the course, we will highlight the lessons that help to illustrate these six themes: Structure determines function. Living organisms maintain homeostasis. Energy flows through living systems; matter is recycled. Life’s components are interconnected and interdependent. Organisms grow, develop, and reproduce. Evolutionary processes explain both the unity and adaptive diversity of life. In this module, we will explore an overview of each of these themes separately.   Introduction to Biology Welcome to OLI’s Introduction to Biological Principles! We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. But before we begin, it is first necessary to consider what Biology actually is. In its most basic definition, biology is the scientific study of life. That is to say biology is the branch of science that studies life, living organisms, and the way organisms interact with their environment. As shown on the figure below, science can be broken down into two main branches - natural sciences and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science. It encompasses many related sub-branches (e.g. ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology) that study different aspects of living organisms. In addition to biology, the other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though science is broken down into branches and sub-branches of study, all of science is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so chemistry is important for biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in the understanding of certain human behaviors, so biology is important for the social and behavioral sciences. Breakdown of Scientific Disciplines This diagram shows the organization of the branches of science. Notice how biology is broken down into many sub-branches, and is closely related to physical sciences such as physics, chemistry, and geology. Now that we have a better understanding of what biology is, it is next important to ask why we are interested in studying it. Why does it matter if we learn biology? We (humans) are living organisms, and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. Have you ever taken an antibiotic to help you get rid of an infection? That was the result of a lot of biological science research! Biologists first studied infections and found that they are caused by microorganisms (very small life forms). Other scientists studied how these microorganisms live and have developed medications that will kill the microorganisms but not harm you. Do you know someone who has cancer? Cell biologists are helping to find cures and treatments for cancer; since the 1970s there have been huge improvements in survival rates for many common cancers. Biology helps to keep us well and is the foundation for modern medicine. Have you ever heard a news report about acid rain and wondered: “Is it really that big of a deal?” Ecologists (specialized biologists who study ecology) have observed what happens to the health of ecosystems when acid rain falls. They can tell you about the consequences in detail, and can even predict which ecosystems will be most affected based on the chemistry of the underlying rocks! Have you ever wondered if there could be life in space, on the moon, or on Mars? Astrobiologists study conditions on other planets and design experiments to help answer those questions. In short, biology and science are all around us and inside us. To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something of the principles of biology that are at work all day, every day in our bodies and on the planet. Areas of Biology in This Course: Planet Earth This is an image of planet Earth taken from outer space. Biology is the study of life and all of the interactions, systems, and chemicals that are necessary to sustain it. In this course, you will come to see the Earth as a living planet, with life changing its rocks and atmosphere. You will learn about the fundamental principles of biology so that you can have a better understanding of the role biology plays in your everyday life - and in the life of Planet Earth. A Carbon Atom As you start to learn about biology, you will notice that there is a lot of chemistry involved! Chemistry is the study of atoms and how they interact. Chemistry is important for biology because all matter, including living organisms, is made up of atoms. Therefore, in order to understand biology we must understanding something of how atoms interact. Life can move, reproduce, grow, and use energy because of processes that happen at the scale of atoms and molecules. A carbon atom is shown here. As you will find out, carbon is a very important atom in biology. Cells With DNA Shown As you have just learned chemistry is important for biology because everything is made up of atoms. Atoms combine to form molecules, and certain molecules come together in a very specific way to form special structures called cells. Cells are the basic unit of life, and therefore, the study of cells is essential to biology. After learning some chemistry fundamentals, you will explore the structure and function of cells in Unit Three of this course. This figure shows cells (outlined in green) and their DNA (stained in blue). The cell in the center is undergoing mitosis, the process of cell division. ATP: Adenosine Triphosphate In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. You will study metabolism in the fourth unit of this course. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell. Another way to relate the topics in this course to one another is shown below in the Concept Map. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. INSERT Figure 1.1from UMUC along with caption. In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the most basic principles of Biology. You will explore the difference between living and non-living things in Module 2. Module 3 of this unit will focus on the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. In Module 4, you will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Lastly, we will learn about the Scientific Method in Module 5. In this module you’ll learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life. We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. But before we begin, it is first necessary to consider what Biology actually is. In its most basic definition, biology is the scientific study of life. That is to say biology is the branch of science that studies life, living organisms, and the way organisms interact with their environment. As shown on the figure below, science can be broken down into two main branches - natural sciences and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science. It encompasses many related sub-branches (e.g. ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology) that study different aspects of living organisms. In addition to biology, the other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though science is broken down into branches and sub-branches of study, all of science is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so chemistry is important for biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in the understanding of certain human behaviors, so biology is important for the social and behavioral sciences. Breakdown of Scientific Disciplines This diagram shows the organization of the branches of science. Notice how biology is broken down into many sub-branches, and is closely related to physical sciences such as physics, chemistry, and geology. Now that we have a better understanding of what biology is, it is next important to ask why we are interested in studying it. Why does it matter if we learn biology? We (humans) are living organisms, and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. Have you ever taken an antibiotic to help you get rid of an infection? That was the result of a lot of biological science research! Biologists first studied infections and found that they are caused by microorganisms (very small life forms). Other scientists studied how these microorganisms live and have developed medications that will kill the microorganisms but not harm you. Do you know someone who has cancer? Cell biologists are helping to find cures and treatments for cancer; since the 1970s there have been huge improvements in survival rates for many common cancers. Biology helps to keep us well and is the foundation for modern medicine. Have you ever heard a news report about acid rain and wondered: “Is it really that big of a deal?” Ecologists (specialized biologists who study ecology) have observed what happens to the health of ecosystems when acid rain falls. They can tell you about the consequences in detail, and can even predict which ecosystems will be most affected based on the chemistry of the underlying rocks! Have you ever wondered if there could be life in space, on the moon, or on Mars? Astrobiologists study conditions on other planets and design experiments to help answer those questions. In short, biology and science are all around us and inside us. To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something of the principles of biology that are at work all day, every day in our bodies and on the planet. Planet Earth This is an image of planet Earth taken from outer space. Biology is the study of life and all of the interactions, systems, and chemicals that are necessary to sustain it. In this course, you will come to see the Earth as a living planet, with life changing its rocks and atmosphere. You will learn about the fundamental principles of biology so that you can have a better understanding of the role biology plays in your everyday life - and in the life of Planet Earth. A Carbon Atom As you start to learn about biology, you will notice that there is a lot of chemistry involved! Chemistry is the study of atoms and how they interact. Chemistry is important for biology because all matter, including living organisms, is made up of atoms. Therefore, in order to understand biology we must understanding something of how atoms interact. Life can move, reproduce, grow, and use energy because of processes that happen at the scale of atoms and molecules. A carbon atom is shown here. As you will find out, carbon is a very important atom in biology. Cells With DNA Shown As you have just learned chemistry is important for biology because everything is made up of atoms. Atoms combine to form molecules, and certain molecules come together in a very specific way to form special structures called cells. Cells are the basic unit of life, and therefore, the study of cells is essential to biology. After learning some chemistry fundamentals, you will explore the structure and function of cells in Unit Three of this course. This figure shows cells (outlined in green) and their DNA (stained in blue). The cell in the center is undergoing mitosis, the process of cell division. ATP: Adenosine Triphosphate In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. You will study metabolism in the fourth unit of this course. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell. Another way to relate the topics in this course to one another is shown below in the Concept Map. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. INSERT Figure 1.1from UMUC along with caption. In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the most basic principles of Biology. You will explore the difference between living and non-living things in Module 2. Module 3 of this unit will focus on the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. In Module 4, you will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Lastly, we will learn about the Scientific Method in Module 5. In this module you’ll learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life.   Introduction to Biology Welcome to OLI’s Introduction to Biological Principles! We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. But before we begin, it is first necessary to consider what Biology actually is. In its most basic definition, biology is the scientific study of life. That is to say biology is the branch of science that studies life, living organisms, and the way organisms interact with their environment. As shown on the figure below, science can be broken down into two main branches - natural sciences and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science. It encompasses many related sub-branches (e.g. ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology) that study different aspects of living organisms. In addition to biology, the other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though science is broken down into branches and sub-branches of study, all of science is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so chemistry is important for biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in the understanding of certain human behaviors, so biology is important for the social and behavioral sciences. Breakdown of Scientific Disciplines By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. This diagram shows the organization of the branches of science. Notice how biology is broken down into many sub-branches, and is closely related to physical sciences such as physics, chemistry, and geology. Now that we have a better understanding of what biology is, it is next important to ask why we are interested in studying it. Why does it matter if we learn biology? We (humans) are living organisms, and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. Have you ever taken an antibiotic to help you get rid of an infection? That was the result of a lot of biological science research! Biologists first studied infections and found that they are caused by microorganisms (very small life forms). Other scientists studied how these microorganisms live and have developed medications that will kill the microorganisms but not harm you. Do you know someone who has cancer? Cell biologists are helping to find cures and treatments for cancer; since the 1970s there have been huge improvements in survival rates for many common cancers. Biology helps to keep us well and is the foundation for modern medicine. Have you ever heard a news report about acid rain and wondered: “Is it really that big of a deal?” Ecologists (specialized biologists who study ecology) have observed what happens to the health of ecosystems when acid rain falls. They can tell you about the consequences in detail and can even predict which ecosystems will be most affected based on the chemistry of the underlying rocks! Have you ever wondered if there could be life in space, on the moon, or on Mars? Astrobiologists study conditions on other planets and design experiments to help answer those questions. In short, biology and science are all around us and inside us. To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something of the principles of biology that are at work all day, every day in our bodies and on the planet. About This Biology Course This biology course is built around several key concepts that provide unifying explanations for how and why structures are formed and processes occur in a biological system. Because it is not possible to cover the breadth of biology in one semester, an understanding of these key concepts will provide a basis for extending your knowledge to biology beyond the specific topics covered in this course. One of the major goals of the course therefore is for you to learn the fundamentals of the concepts and recognize how they can be applied in other contexts. Biology - The Study of Life: This is an image of planet Earth taken from outer space. Biology is the study of life and all of the interactions, systems, and chemicals that are necessary to sustain planet Earth. In this course, you will come to see the Earth as a living planet, with life changing its rocks and atmosphere. You will learn about the fundamental principles of biology so that you can have a better understanding of the role biology plays in your everyday life - and in the life of Planet Earth. Biological Chemistry: As you start to learn about biology, you will notice that there is a lot of chemistry involved! Chemistry is the study of atoms and how they interact. Chemistry is important for biology because all matter, including living organisms, is made up of atoms. Therefore, in order to understand biology we must understanding something of how atoms interact. Life can move, reproduce, grow, and use energy because of processes that happen at the scale of atoms and molecules. A carbon atom is shown here. As you will find out, carbon is a very important atom in biology. The Cell: As you have just learned chemistry is important for biology because everything is made up of atoms. Atoms combine to form molecules, and certain molecules come together in a very specific way to form special structures called cells. Cells are the basic unit of life, and therefore, the study of cells is essential to biology. After learning some chemistry fundamentals, you will explore the structure and function of cells . This figure shows cells (outlined in green) and their DNA (stained in blue). The cell in the center is undergoing mitosis, the process of cell division. Metabolism: In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. A Metabolic Pathway You will study metabolism in this course. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell. Key Concepts in Biology Another way to relate the topics in this course to one another is shown below in the Concept Map. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the most basic principles of Biology. You will explore the difference between living and non-living things, and we will discuss the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. You will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Lastly, we will learn about the Scientific Method. In this module you’ll learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life. We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. But before we begin, it is first necessary to consider what Biology actually is. In its most basic definition, biology is the scientific study of life. That is to say biology is the branch of science that studies life, living organisms, and the way organisms interact with their environment. As shown on the figure below, science can be broken down into two main branches - natural sciences and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science. It encompasses many related sub-branches (e.g. ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology) that study different aspects of living organisms. In addition to biology, the other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though science is broken down into branches and sub-branches of study, all of science is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so chemistry is important for biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in the understanding of certain human behaviors, so biology is important for the social and behavioral sciences. Breakdown of Scientific Disciplines By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. This diagram shows the organization of the branches of science. Notice how biology is broken down into many sub-branches, and is closely related to physical sciences such as physics, chemistry, and geology. Now that we have a better understanding of what biology is, it is next important to ask why we are interested in studying it. Why does it matter if we learn biology? We (humans) are living organisms, and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. Have you ever taken an antibiotic to help you get rid of an infection? That was the result of a lot of biological science research! Biologists first studied infections and found that they are caused by microorganisms (very small life forms). Other scientists studied how these microorganisms live and have developed medications that will kill the microorganisms but not harm you. Do you know someone who has cancer? Cell biologists are helping to find cures and treatments for cancer; since the 1970s there have been huge improvements in survival rates for many common cancers. Biology helps to keep us well and is the foundation for modern medicine. Have you ever heard a news report about acid rain and wondered: “Is it really that big of a deal?” Ecologists (specialized biologists who study ecology) have observed what happens to the health of ecosystems when acid rain falls. They can tell you about the consequences in detail and can even predict which ecosystems will be most affected based on the chemistry of the underlying rocks! Have you ever wondered if there could be life in space, on the moon, or on Mars? Astrobiologists study conditions on other planets and design experiments to help answer those questions. In short, biology and science are all around us and inside us. To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something of the principles of biology that are at work all day, every day in our bodies and on the planet. This biology course is built around several key concepts that provide unifying explanations for how and why structures are formed and processes occur in a biological system. Because it is not possible to cover the breadth of biology in one semester, an understanding of these key concepts will provide a basis for extending your knowledge to biology beyond the specific topics covered in this course. One of the major goals of the course therefore is for you to learn the fundamentals of the concepts and recognize how they can be applied in other contexts. Biology - The Study of Life: This is an image of planet Earth taken from outer space. Biology is the study of life and all of the interactions, systems, and chemicals that are necessary to sustain planet Earth. In this course, you will come to see the Earth as a living planet, with life changing its rocks and atmosphere. You will learn about the fundamental principles of biology so that you can have a better understanding of the role biology plays in your everyday life - and in the life of Planet Earth. Biological Chemistry: As you start to learn about biology, you will notice that there is a lot of chemistry involved! Chemistry is the study of atoms and how they interact. Chemistry is important for biology because all matter, including living organisms, is made up of atoms. Therefore, in order to understand biology we must understanding something of how atoms interact. Life can move, reproduce, grow, and use energy because of processes that happen at the scale of atoms and molecules. A carbon atom is shown here. As you will find out, carbon is a very important atom in biology. The Cell: As you have just learned chemistry is important for biology because everything is made up of atoms. Atoms combine to form molecules, and certain molecules come together in a very specific way to form special structures called cells. Cells are the basic unit of life, and therefore, the study of cells is essential to biology. After learning some chemistry fundamentals, you will explore the structure and function of cells . This figure shows cells (outlined in green) and their DNA (stained in blue). The cell in the center is undergoing mitosis, the process of cell division. Metabolism: In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. A Metabolic Pathway You will study metabolism in this course. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell. Key Concepts in Biology Another way to relate the topics in this course to one another is shown below in the Concept Map. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the most basic principles of Biology. You will explore the difference between living and non-living things, and we will discuss the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. You will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Lastly, we will learn about the Scientific Method. In this module you’ll learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life. Metabolism: In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. A Metabolic Pathway You will study metabolism in this course. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell.   Hierarchy of Life Properties of Living Organisms In the previous modules we discussed the nature of Biology and some key biological concepts in the study of life. Levels of Biological Organisms Life is organized on hierarchical levels of increasing complexity. Biologists look at all levels of aspects of life, past and present. This journey takes them all the way down to atoms and molecules, and all the way up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. As we ascend to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that do not appear in any of its component parts. The separated parts of an automobile amount to a heap of junk. Only properly assembled, with gas, the right key, and a human driver, does the car fulfill its function. A more biological example would be life, an emergent property that appears at the cellular level. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. Over 2000 years ago, Aristotle said “The whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.” In biology, this is a constant theme: we can learn much about a system by looking at its details, but we also must step back and look at the big picture to truly understand the workings of life. Emergent Properties Emergent properties are visualized in this diagram. If you zoom in on the photograph, it eventually appears as a collection of individual pixels, each of one color. Only when seen in relationship to each other do these pixels make sense as an image. If you zoom in on a cell, it looks like a random mixture of molecules. Only when they are organized within a cell do these molecules work together to permit life. Levels of Organization Observe the following diagram Levels of organization of life. Living things are highly organized and structured following a hierarchy that can be examined on a scale from small to large. The atom is the basic unit of matter and consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by electrons. Atoms join together to form molecules. A molecule is a chemical structure consisting of at least two atoms held together by a chemical bond. Many molecules that are biologically important are macromolecules, which are technically polymers. Polymers are made by combining smaller units called monomers which are simpler macromolecules. An example of a macromolecule is the genetic molecule deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) that contains the instructions for the development of all living organisms . DNA is built of four kinds of monomers (nucleotides). They are strung together, or polymerized, in a sequence that codes for the structure of proteins and other biological molecules. The DNA in one of your microscopic cells contains a sequence of almost 3 billion nucleotides! The cell is the smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life: it is the smallest and simplest entity that is truly alive. Some organisms consist of just one cell (they are unicellular), whereas others consist of many cells (we are multicellular). A cell is essentially a tiny droplet of fluid and molecules enclosed by a fluid “skin” or membrane. Organisms are classified as prokaryotes or eukaryotes. The cells of prokaryotes are relatively small and simple; they do not have any clearly defined compartments inside of them. The cells of eukaryotes, by contrast, include membrane-bound organelles: compartments inside the cell that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. One of these organelles is the nucleus; it encloses the DNA within the cell. The cell will be studied in more detail as the class progresses. You may want to preview The Cell Unit. In most multicellular organisms, cells combine to make tissues, groups of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function. Organs are collections of tissues grouped together based on a common general function. Organs are present not only in higher level animals but also in plants. An organ system is a higher level of organization that consists of functionally related organs. Mammals have many organ systems, an example of which is the circulatory system that transports blood through the body and to and from the lungs; it includes organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Organisms are individual living entities that survive and reproduce as a unit. For example, each tree in a forest is usually an individual organism. Single-celled life forms are also considered to be organisms and are typically referred to as microorganisms. All the individuals of a species living within a specific area are collectively called a population. For example, a forest may include many pine trees. All those pine trees represent the population of pine trees in this area. Many different populations live in any specific area. All of these populations can interact with each other in positive and negative ways, and together they form a community. For example, the forest with pine trees includes populations of flowers, mammals, birds, insects, fungi, and bacteria, all of which can interact. An ecosystem consists of all the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic, non-living part of that environment. So the pine forest ecosytem includes not just plants, animals, and microbes but also rocks, water, temperature changes, air chemistry, and other abiotic factors that interact with life in the area. At the highest level of organization, the biosphere is the collection of all ecosystems on Earth. It is Earth’s habitable zone and includes land, soil, and rocks to a great depth in the Earth’s crust; water and ice; and the atmosphere to great height. In the introduction to this unit you read about different sub-disciplines of Biological Sciences. While there are no rigid separations between these disciplines and the hierarchical levels of organization of life, it is possible to relate some disciplines with specific levels, for example Cell Biology and Microbiology with the cellular level (see activity below). In the previous modules we discussed the nature of Biology and some key biological concepts in the study of life. Life is organized on hierarchical levels of increasing complexity. Biologists look at all levels of aspects of life, past and present. This journey takes them all the way down to atoms and molecules, and all the way up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. As we ascend to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that do not appear in any of its component parts. The separated parts of an automobile amount to a heap of junk. Only properly assembled, with gas, the right key, and a human driver, does the car fulfill its function. A more biological example would be life, an emergent property that appears at the cellular level. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. Over 2000 years ago, Aristotle said “The whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.” In biology, this is a constant theme: we can learn much about a system by looking at its details, but we also must step back and look at the big picture to truly understand the workings of life. Emergent Properties Emergent properties are visualized in this diagram. If you zoom in on the photograph, it eventually appears as a collection of individual pixels, each of one color. Only when seen in relationship to each other do these pixels make sense as an image. If you zoom in on a cell, it looks like a random mixture of molecules. Only when they are organized within a cell do these molecules work together to permit life. Observe the following diagram Levels of organization of life. Living things are highly organized and structured following a hierarchy that can be examined on a scale from small to large. The atom is the basic unit of matter and consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by electrons. Atoms join together to form molecules. A molecule is a chemical structure consisting of at least two atoms held together by a chemical bond. Many molecules that are biologically important are macromolecules, which are technically polymers. Polymers are made by combining smaller units called monomers which are simpler macromolecules. An example of a macromolecule is the genetic molecule deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) that contains the instructions for the development of all living organisms . DNA is built of four kinds of monomers (nucleotides). They are strung together, or polymerized, in a sequence that codes for the structure of proteins and other biological molecules. The DNA in one of your microscopic cells contains a sequence of almost 3 billion nucleotides! The cell is the smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life: it is the smallest and simplest entity that is truly alive. Some organisms consist of just one cell (they are unicellular), whereas others consist of many cells (we are multicellular). A cell is essentially a tiny droplet of fluid and molecules enclosed by a fluid “skin” or membrane. Organisms are classified as prokaryotes or eukaryotes. The cells of prokaryotes are relatively small and simple; they do not have any clearly defined compartments inside of them. The cells of eukaryotes, by contrast, include membrane-bound organelles: compartments inside the cell that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. One of these organelles is the nucleus; it encloses the DNA within the cell. The cell will be studied in more detail as the class progresses. You may want to preview The Cell Unit. In most multicellular organisms, cells combine to make tissues, groups of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function. Organs are collections of tissues grouped together based on a common general function. Organs are present not only in higher level animals but also in plants. An organ system is a higher level of organization that consists of functionally related organs. Mammals have many organ systems, an example of which is the circulatory system that transports blood through the body and to and from the lungs; it includes organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Organisms are individual living entities that survive and reproduce as a unit. For example, each tree in a forest is usually an individual organism. Single-celled life forms are also considered to be organisms and are typically referred to as microorganisms. All the individuals of a species living within a specific area are collectively called a population. For example, a forest may include many pine trees. All those pine trees represent the population of pine trees in this area. Many different populations live in any specific area. All of these populations can interact with each other in positive and negative ways, and together they form a community. For example, the forest with pine trees includes populations of flowers, mammals, birds, insects, fungi, and bacteria, all of which can interact. An ecosystem consists of all the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic, non-living part of that environment. So the pine forest ecosytem includes not just plants, animals, and microbes but also rocks, water, temperature changes, air chemistry, and other abiotic factors that interact with life in the area. At the highest level of organization, the biosphere is the collection of all ecosystems on Earth. It is Earth’s habitable zone and includes land, soil, and rocks to a great depth in the Earth’s crust; water and ice; and the atmosphere to great height. In the introduction to this unit you read about different sub-disciplines of Biological Sciences. While there are no rigid separations between these disciplines and the hierarchical levels of organization of life, it is possible to relate some disciplines with specific levels, for example Cell Biology and Microbiology with the cellular level (see activity below).   Welcome We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. Biology is the scientific study of life. Biologists are scientists who study living organisms. Life is everywhere. Biologists study the human body and figure out how it works when it is healthy, and compare that to the way it works when things go wrong. They study the bacteria that live in your digestive system and explore the reasons why these bacteria are critical to your health. They study mice and flies and yeast and plants and learn about how living organisms are alike, and how they are different. Biology montage. Photographs donated by Eric Guinther, 2004. Wikimedia. Different kinds of biologists study different things. Cell biologists are currently researching the causes and symptoms of various types of cancer, enabling doctors to find cures and treatments. Ecologists are biologists who specialize in studying the way that living organisms interact with their environments. They examine important issues such as acid rain and observe what happens to the health of living systems when acid rain falls. There are even specialized biologists, called astrobiologists, who study conditions on other planets and design experiments to determine whether or not life could exist in other places in our solar system. Understanding biology can help us understand ourselves and the environment around us. For example, understanding how climate change affects ecosystems will help identify the ways in which sustainable food production can keep up with a growing human population. Biological research is constantly adding to our understanding of human health and disease, and often results in treatments that lead to longer, healthier, and more productive lives. Biological research can also help address the growing demand for renewable energy and sustainable resource use. Being a Critical Consumer of Information Every day we are bombarded with information about health issues, new vaccines and medicines, ecological problems, and other issues related to biological research. This information comes at us from a myriad of diverse sources, including friends, healthcare providers, the media, your neighbors, and the Internet. As you gain a deeper understanding of life and the processes that sustain it, you will be able to more effectively sort through and interpret this deluge of information, and make informed decisions about your health and how you interact with the environment. Every day, we are bombarded with reports of new discoveries in biology that are exciting, relevant, and sometimes controversial. See University of Oxford (2012, June 18) After completing this course, you will have a basic understanding of biological principles and how they relate to your life. Portions of this course are built on materials developed and generously provided by University of Maryland University College, made available with permission under a CC-BY-NC license. Direct use of specific activities and media elements are noted throughout the course. Every day we are bombarded with information about health issues, new vaccines and medicines, ecological problems, and other issues related to biological research. This information comes at us from a myriad of diverse sources, including friends, healthcare providers, the media, your neighbors, and the Internet. As you gain a deeper understanding of life and the processes that sustain it, you will be able to more effectively sort through and interpret this deluge of information, and make informed decisions about your health and how you interact with the environment. Every day, we are bombarded with reports of new discoveries in biology that are exciting, relevant, and sometimes controversial. See University of Oxford (2012, June 18) After completing this course, you will have a basic understanding of biological principles and how they relate to your life. Portions of this course are built on materials developed and generously provided by University of Maryland University College, made available with permission under a CC-BY-NC license. Direct use of specific activities and media elements are noted throughout the course. Portions of this course are built on materials developed and generously provided by University of Maryland University College, made available with permission under a CC-BY-NC license. Direct use of specific activities and media elements are noted throughout the course.   The Big Picture This course is divided into 10 units. This first unit, "Biology: The Science of Life," lays the foundation upon which the rest of the course is built. This unit begins by defining biology and characterizing its relationship to other fields of scientific study. It then elaborates on a few of the themes that emerge over and over throughout this course. Finally, in this unit you will explore the nature of science. This introduction represents the toolkit you’ll need to understand the rest of the course, and will enable you to create context for all the new information you will learn. The diagram above represents the "Big Picture" of biology. It illustrates how the course is organized and depicts the relationships between the main topics you will learn about as you progress through the material. You will find that as you go, the material is telling a story. It is a story based on the research and collaboration of centuries of scientific thinkers. The story begins with the smallest particles of matter: atoms. Atoms are the building blocks of all matter and they can be put together, like Legos, to form molecules. A special class of molecules called biomolecules are the “legos” used to build the structures required for life. The fundamental unit of life is the cell, and all cells are made of biomolecules. The cell is the first level of organization to display all the characteristics of life. Cells, and all living organisms, require energy to function. Organisms capture and use energy through a chain of chemical reactions called metabolic processes. The energy that cells capture through metabolism can be used to do work, including the work required for reproduction. All living organisms reproduce, passing their genetic information from generation to generation. This results in a unity and diversity of all living organisms, because we all share a common ancestor. Some organisms are more likely to survive than others, and this leads to evolutionary processes that result in the incredible diversity of life you see around you. The final chapter in the story reminds us that the diversity of life exists within a rich context of interactions, causes, and effects. Life does not take place in a vacuum; instead, living organisms rely intimately on other living organisms, as well as in the nonliving environment. All matter, living and nonliving, exists within a delicate interconnected balance, and humans are just one part of this biosphere. This is a fascinating story and one that inspires a deep understanding and appreciation of the living world within us and around us. As we study the fundamental principles of biology, we will systematically explore the following characteristics of life. 1. Life is organized into hierarchical levels. Atoms are tiny particles that are put together to build living organisms. While atoms do not possess life, they are required for life. The atom is the smallest organizational level that we will explore in this course, and you will learn more about atoms in Unit 2: Introduction to Chemistry. You will also learn how atoms can be linked together by chemical bonds to form molecules. In Unit 3: Biological Macromolecules, you will focus on the four classes of carbon-based macromolecules that comprise living systems: carbohydrates, fats, proteins and nucleic acids. 2. Life maintains internal stability through a process called homeostasis. Atoms and molecules are not alive. After exploring the world of atoms and molecules, you will learn how these building blocks are put together to construct the fundamental unit of life: the cell. The cellular level of organization is the first time all the characteristics of life emerge, resulting in a structure that is able to maintain its own internal constancy. In Unit 4: The Cell, you will learn how the unique structures that make up a cell enable it to maintain homeostasis and carry out the varied functions of life. 3. Life requires energy. Energy is required to sustain life and all living organisms need energy to fuel their metabolic activities. Some organisms get this energy directly from the sun through the process of photosynthesis. Other organisms harvest their energy from the food they eat. Humans are an example of organisms that obtain energy from food. In Unit 5: Metabolism, you will take a closer look at what energy is and explore how different cells acquire and use energy. 4. Life grows, develops, and reproduces. All living things grow, develop and reproduce. We will focus on the ways different types of cells reproduce themselves in Unit 6: Cell Division. Genetic information in cells provides the instructions for carrying out life processes. In order for life to continue, organisms must pass information to the next generation. How genetic information is passed from one generation to the next is discussed in Unit 7: Classical Genetics. The physical traits an organism displays are ultimately determined by the DNA found within the organism’s cells. In Unit 8: Molecular Genetics, we will connect heredity to DNA, the genetic material of the cell. We will specifically explore DNA function and figure out how DNA determines the heritable traits that individual organisms can pass to their offspring. 5. Life evolves. Life changes and evolves over time. In Unit 9: Evolution, you will examine the process of evolution taking place within populations of organisms. This unit will explicitly link evolutionary change with the heritable characteristics you will learn about in Classical Genetics and Molecular Genetics. 6. Life is interdependent. You will conclude your exploration of biology by learning about the interactions between groups of living organisms and their environments. Unit 10: Ecology discusses how humans are part of a living biosphere and how our actions, both intentional and inadvertent, have widespread consequences. These life characteristics and biological principles represent the big ideas generally explored in an introduction to the study of biology. Your instructor, though, may choose to add, omit, or reorganize this material to adapt the the course for the goals and objectives of your class. Atoms are tiny particles that are put together to build living organisms. While atoms do not possess life, they are required for life. The atom is the smallest organizational level that we will explore in this course, and you will learn more about atoms in Unit 2: Introduction to Chemistry. You will also learn how atoms can be linked together by chemical bonds to form molecules. In Unit 3: Biological Macromolecules, you will focus on the four classes of carbon-based macromolecules that comprise living systems: carbohydrates, fats, proteins and nucleic acids. Atoms and molecules are not alive. After exploring the world of atoms and molecules, you will learn how these building blocks are put together to construct the fundamental unit of life: the cell. The cellular level of organization is the first time all the characteristics of life emerge, resulting in a structure that is able to maintain its own internal constancy. In Unit 4: The Cell, you will learn how the unique structures that make up a cell enable it to maintain homeostasis and carry out the varied functions of life. Energy is required to sustain life and all living organisms need energy to fuel their metabolic activities. Some organisms get this energy directly from the sun through the process of photosynthesis. Other organisms harvest their energy from the food they eat. Humans are an example of organisms that obtain energy from food. In Unit 5: Metabolism, you will take a closer look at what energy is and explore how different cells acquire and use energy. All living things grow, develop and reproduce. We will focus on the ways different types of cells reproduce themselves in Unit 6: Cell Division. Genetic information in cells provides the instructions for carrying out life processes. In order for life to continue, organisms must pass information to the next generation. How genetic information is passed from one generation to the next is discussed in Unit 7: Classical Genetics. The physical traits an organism displays are ultimately determined by the DNA found within the organism’s cells. In Unit 8: Molecular Genetics, we will connect heredity to DNA, the genetic material of the cell. We will specifically explore DNA function and figure out how DNA determines the heritable traits that individual organisms can pass to their offspring. Life changes and evolves over time. In Unit 9: Evolution, you will examine the process of evolution taking place within populations of organisms. This unit will explicitly link evolutionary change with the heritable characteristics you will learn about in Classical Genetics and Molecular Genetics. You will conclude your exploration of biology by learning about the interactions between groups of living organisms and their environments. Unit 10: Ecology discusses how humans are part of a living biosphere and how our actions, both intentional and inadvertent, have widespread consequences.   Emergent Properties Life: An Emergent Property Life is organized into hierarchical levels of increasing complexity. The study of biology involves all these levels, from single atoms or molecules up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. As we ascend through this hierarchy to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that are not present in any of its component parts. Take, for example, an automobile. The separated parts of the automobile amount to a heap of junk. Only when properly assembled, with gas, the right key, and a human driver, does the car fulfill its function, which is to transport us from place to place. Emergent Properties Emergent properties are visualized in this diagram. If you zoom in on the photograph, it eventually appears as a collection of individual pixels, each of one color. Only when seen in relationship to each other do these pixels make sense as an image. If you zoom in on a cell, it looks like a random mixture of molecules. Only when they are organized within a cell do these molecules work together to permit life. Life is an emergent property, and one that appears at the cellular level of organization. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. More than 2,000 years ago, Aristotle said “The whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.” In biology, this is a constant theme: we can learn much about a system by looking at its details, but we also must step back and look at the big picture to truly understand the workings of life. Key Concepts in Biology Another way to relate the conditions for life with the hierarchy of life is shown in the concept map below. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Click on the blue lines. Related concepts will be highlighted and the theories of life introduced in the "big picture" described. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. These are the concepts and principles of biology you will learn about in this course. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Life is organized into hierarchical levels of increasing complexity. The study of biology involves all these levels, from single atoms or molecules up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. As we ascend through this hierarchy to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that are not present in any of its component parts. Take, for example, an automobile. The separated parts of the automobile amount to a heap of junk. Only when properly assembled, with gas, the right key, and a human driver, does the car fulfill its function, which is to transport us from place to place. Emergent Properties Emergent properties are visualized in this diagram. If you zoom in on the photograph, it eventually appears as a collection of individual pixels, each of one color. Only when seen in relationship to each other do these pixels make sense as an image. If you zoom in on a cell, it looks like a random mixture of molecules. Only when they are organized within a cell do these molecules work together to permit life. Life is an emergent property, and one that appears at the cellular level of organization. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. More than 2,000 years ago, Aristotle said “The whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.” In biology, this is a constant theme: we can learn much about a system by looking at its details, but we also must step back and look at the big picture to truly understand the workings of life. Key Concepts in Biology Another way to relate the conditions for life with the hierarchy of life is shown in the concept map below. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Click on the blue lines. Related concepts will be highlighted and the theories of life introduced in the "big picture" described. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. These are the concepts and principles of biology you will learn about in this course. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC.   About This Biology Course This biology course is built around several key concepts that provide unifying explanations for how and why structures are formed and processes occur in a biological system. Because it is not possible to cover the breadth of biology in one semester, an understanding of these key concepts will provide a basis for extending your knowledge to biology beyond the specific topics covered in this course. One of the major goals of the course therefore is for you to learn the fundamentals of the concepts and recognize how they can be applied in other contexts. Biology - The Study of Life: This is an image of planet Earth taken from outer space. Biology is the study of life and all of the interactions, systems, and chemicals that are necessary to sustain planet Earth. In this course, you will come to see the Earth as a living planet, with life changing its rocks and atmosphere. You will learn about the fundamental principles of biology so that you can have a better understanding of the role biology plays in your everyday life - and in the life of Planet Earth. Biological Chemistry: As you start to learn about biology, you will notice that there is a lot of chemistry involved! Chemistry is the study of atoms and how they interact. Chemistry is important for biology because all matter, including living organisms, is made up of atoms. Therefore, in order to understand biology we must understanding something of how atoms interact. Life can move, reproduce, grow, and use energy because of processes that happen at the scale of atoms and molecules. A carbon atom is shown here. As you will find out, carbon is a very important atom in biology. The Cell: As you have just learned chemistry is important for biology because everything is made up of atoms. Atoms combine to form molecules, and certain molecules come together in a very specific way to form special structures called cells. Cells are the basic unit of life, and therefore, the study of cells is essential to biology. After learning some chemistry fundamentals, you will explore the structure and function of cells . This figure shows cells (outlined in green) and their DNA (stained in blue). The cell in the center is undergoing mitosis, the process of cell division. Metabolism: In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. A Metabolic Pathway You will study metabolism in this course. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell. Key Concepts in Biology Another way to relate the topics in this course to one another is shown below in the Concept Map. The blue lines that connect the green concepts show the interaction between them. Spend a few minutes exploring this diagram. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the most basic principles of Biology. You will explore the difference between living and non-living things, and we will discuss the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. You will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Lastly, we will learn about the Scientific Method. In this module you’ll learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life. Metabolism: In order for cells to function they require energy and matter. Cells take in nutrients, use energy, grow, and rid themselves of waste in a process called metabolism. A Metabolic Pathway You will study metabolism in this course. Metabolism will draw upon your understanding of chemistry: cells use chemical nutrients and chemical energy sources. You will also need to use your understanding of cells: there are certain parts of the cell whose role is to break down nutrients, build new material, and manage the energy needs of the cell. Every living organism undergoes metabolism, so it is a crucial concept in biology. This figure demonstrates one metabolic pathway: a series of chemical reactions that starts the process of breaking down sugar for use as fuel in a cell.   Introduction Welcome to OLI's Introduction to Biological Principles! We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. Biology is the scientific study of life. Biologists study living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. The understanding gained as a result of biological research has improved our quality of life. A prime example of this is the years of biological research that resulted in the discovery of antibiotics to help treat bacterial infections. Cell biologists are currently researching the causes and symptoms of various types of cancers, enabling doctors to find cures and treatments for cancer. Ecologists are biologists who specialize in studying the way that living organisms interact with their environments. They examine important issues such as acid rain and observe what happens to the health of living systems when acid rain falls. There are even specialized biologists, called astrobiologists, who study conditions on other planets and design experiments to determine whether or not life could exist in other places in our solar system. Understanding biology can help us understand ourselves and the environment around us. For example, understanding how climate change affects ecosystems will help identify the ways in which sustainable food production can keep up with a growing human population. Biological research is constantly adding to our understanding of human health and disease and often results in treatments that lead to longer, healthier, and more productive lives. Biological research can also help address the growing demand for renewable energy and sustainable resource use. Volumes of News and Information Exists in Print and Digital Form Every day we are bombarded with information about health issues, new vaccines and medicines, ecological problems, and other issues related to biological research. This information comes at us from a myriad of diverse sources, including friends, healthcare providers, the media, your neighbors, and the internet. As you gain a deeper understanding of life and the processes that sustain it, you will be able to more effectively sort through and interpret this deluge of information, and make more informed decisions about your health and how you interact with the environment. Our goals for this course are for learners to understand the basic process of scientific inquiry and be able to critically evaluate information that claims to be “scientific.” We aim for learners to become scientifically literate participants in social discussions and policy debates on issues such as: personal health and medicine; opportunities and challenges posed by new medical technologies; and, human effects on the environment. Upon completing this course, learners will be able to understand and dialogue about biological principles and concepts relating to: cell biology, energy balance and nutrition, reproduction and genetics, diversity of life, and evolution. We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. Biology is the scientific study of life. Biologists study living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. The understanding gained as a result of biological research has improved our quality of life. A prime example of this is the years of biological research that resulted in the discovery of antibiotics to help treat bacterial infections. Cell biologists are currently researching the causes and symptoms of various types of cancers, enabling doctors to find cures and treatments for cancer. Ecologists are biologists who specialize in studying the way that living organisms interact with their environments. They examine important issues such as acid rain and observe what happens to the health of living systems when acid rain falls. There are even specialized biologists, called astrobiologists, who study conditions on other planets and design experiments to determine whether or not life could exist in other places in our solar system. Understanding biology can help us understand ourselves and the environment around us. For example, understanding how climate change affects ecosystems will help identify the ways in which sustainable food production can keep up with a growing human population. Biological research is constantly adding to our understanding of human health and disease and often results in treatments that lead to longer, healthier, and more productive lives. Biological research can also help address the growing demand for renewable energy and sustainable resource use. Volumes of News and Information Exists in Print and Digital Form Every day we are bombarded with information about health issues, new vaccines and medicines, ecological problems, and other issues related to biological research. This information comes at us from a myriad of diverse sources, including friends, healthcare providers, the media, your neighbors, and the internet. As you gain a deeper understanding of life and the processes that sustain it, you will be able to more effectively sort through and interpret this deluge of information, and make more informed decisions about your health and how you interact with the environment. Our goals for this course are for learners to understand the basic process of scientific inquiry and be able to critically evaluate information that claims to be “scientific.” We aim for learners to become scientifically literate participants in social discussions and policy debates on issues such as: personal health and medicine; opportunities and challenges posed by new medical technologies; and, human effects on the environment. Upon completing this course, learners will be able to understand and dialogue about biological principles and concepts relating to: cell biology, energy balance and nutrition, reproduction and genetics, diversity of life, and evolution.   Introduction to Biology Welcome to Introduction to Biological Principles We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. Before we begin, we should consider what biology actually is. Biology is the scientific study of life. Biologists study living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. The subject is vast and includes topics as diverse as acid rain, evolution, and genetically modified foods. Why study biology? Human beings are living organisms and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. The understanding gained as a result of biological research has improved our quality of life. For example, it was years of biological research that resulted in the discovery of antibiotics to help treat bacterial infections. Cell biologists are currently researching the causes and symptoms of various types of cancers and this research enables doctors to find cures and treatments for cancer. In this way, biology helps to keep us well and is the foundation for modern medicine. Biology also helps answer questions about the world around us. Ecologists are biologists who specialize in studying the way that living organisms interact with their environments. They examine important issues such as acid rain and observe what happens to the health of living systems when acid rain falls. There are even specialized biologists, called astrobiologists, who study conditions on other planets and design experiments to determine whether or not life could exist in other places in our solar system. To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something about the principles of biology that are at work all day, every day in our bodies and on this planet. In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the basic principles of biology. First you will explore the difference between living and non-living things. You will also see how biology “zooms” in and out, looking at life on a huge range of levels from atoms to the global environment. You will begin to see how all living organisms are built from smaller components that combine to form larger more complex systems. You will also be introduced to the common themes of biology, concepts that appear over and over again throughout the course. Last, we will learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life. Many of these ideas will be applied in a final section exploring the use – and misuse – of antibiotics. We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. Before we begin, we should consider what biology actually is. Biology is the scientific study of life. Biologists study living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. The subject is vast and includes topics as diverse as acid rain, evolution, and genetically modified foods. Human beings are living organisms and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. The understanding gained as a result of biological research has improved our quality of life. For example, it was years of biological research that resulted in the discovery of antibiotics to help treat bacterial infections. Cell biologists are currently researching the causes and symptoms of various types of cancers and this research enables doctors to find cures and treatments for cancer. In this way, biology helps to keep us well and is the foundation for modern medicine. Biology also helps answer questions about the world around us. Ecologists are biologists who specialize in studying the way that living organisms interact with their environments. They examine important issues such as acid rain and observe what happens to the health of living systems when acid rain falls. There are even specialized biologists, called astrobiologists, who study conditions on other planets and design experiments to determine whether or not life could exist in other places in our solar system. To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something about the principles of biology that are at work all day, every day in our bodies and on this planet. In the remainder of this Unit, you will continue to explore some of the basic principles of biology. First you will explore the difference between living and non-living things. You will also see how biology “zooms” in and out, looking at life on a huge range of levels from atoms to the global environment. You will begin to see how all living organisms are built from smaller components that combine to form larger more complex systems. You will also be introduced to the common themes of biology, concepts that appear over and over again throughout the course. Last, we will learn about some of the key tools, ideas, and problem-solving methods that are used by biologists to ask and answer scientific questions about life. Many of these ideas will be applied in a final section exploring the use – and misuse – of antibiotics.   About this Course The purpose of this course introduction is to prepare you conceptually and technically for the course. Since you may not have experienced an online course like this before, we will start with a short section describing the course and offer some learning strategies that will help you use the materials most efficiently. Finally, we will discuss what biology is all about — the "big picture" — our framework for exploring the relationship between the themes in biological research and the fundamental concepts and principles included in this course. Information in this course is organized into units. Each unit begins with an introduction that orients you toward the major themes you’ll explore in that section. The unit introduction will also show you how the content fits into the course as a whole. Each unit consists of several modules. Modules are like chapters in a book, and when you start a new module, you will see the list of learning outcomes you will achieve after completing that section of the course. Each module consists of several pages designed to help you achieve the learning outcomes. The introduction highlights what you will learn and how it relates to the big picture. The following pages make up the informational “meat” of the module. This explanatory content consists of short passages of text with information, examples, images, and explanations. As you work through the content, you will have many opportunities to practice what you are learning. The practice usually takes one of two forms: “Learn By Doing” activities give you the chance to practice the concept that you are learning, with hints and targeted feedback to guide you if you struggle. “Did I Get This?” activities give you the opportunity to do a quick "self-check" to assess your own understanding of the material before completing a graded quiz. Directed feedback during these learning activities will help you stay on track as you assimilate new information. Most modules will also include an “Application Spotlight” that gives you the opportunity to apply your understanding of the module’s content to a specific case study or real-life example. After completing a module, you will have a chance to demonstrate what you learned by taking a graded quiz. The module quizzes will assess and reinforce your learning as you progress through the unit. When you complete all the modules in a unit, you can participate in a “My Response” activity, where you will assess your own understanding of the unit content. After reflecting on your ability to achieve the learning objectives, you will have a chance to submit questions to your instructor, and then you will conclude your activities with a unit quiz. Other Course Features You can navigate through this course using the navigation bar at the top of the screen, the course syllabus, the course outline, and the page number box. All are accessible on any page in the course. Also provided is an Appendix, which includes information such as a glossary of key terms and their definitions, a table illustrating the various ways biologists represent chemical structures, and an interactive image of the cell (the smallest unit of life). You can navigate through this course using the navigation bar at the top of the screen, the course syllabus, the course outline, and the page number box. All are accessible on any page in the course. Also provided is an Appendix, which includes information such as a glossary of key terms and their definitions, a table illustrating the various ways biologists represent chemical structures, and an interactive image of the cell (the smallest unit of life).   The Big Picture (v2) [Production Note: Alternative display for consideration.] Our examination of the fundamental principles of biology will be an exploration of the following theories of life resulting from biological research. Life is diverse and organized into hierarchical levels. Life requires energy. Life grows, develops, and reproduces. Life responds to the environment and maintains internal stability through a process called homeostasis. Life evolves resulting in similar and diverse forms of life. The course is divided into 10 units. What follows is a brief overview of each unit and how it relates to the theories about life resulting from biological research: Biology - The Study of Life: In this first unit of the course, we set the foundation upon which the rest of the course is built. We define biology and its relationship to other fields of scientific study. We elaborate on the themes that characterize life and the theories resulting from biological research, and discuss the nature of the scientific inquiry. We will then start our methodical exploration of living systems, beginning with the building blocks that are not alive, but are required for life. We will explore how life is diverse and organized into hierarchical levels starting with the smallest chemical building blocks of life to the cell (the basic unit of life). Introduction to Chemistry: The atom is the fundamental unit of matter and in this unit you will learn about the atom and how atoms combine to form molecules. Then you will take a closer look at a very special molecule, water. Finally we will explore an important property that has significant effects on living systems: pH.. Biological Macromolecules: In the “Introduction to Chemistry” unit, we introduce the idea that atoms can combine to form molecules. In this unit, we will focus in on the four classes of carbon-based macromolecules that comprise living systems: carbohydrates, fats, proteins and nucleic acids. The Cell: After exploring the world of atoms and molecules, we will put those building blocks together to construct the fundamental unit of life: the cell. In this unit, we will emphasize the parts of different kinds of cells and how the cell’s structure dictates its function. Metabolism: Energy is required to sustain life. All organisms use a source of energy for their metabolic activities. Some organisms use energy from the sun while others use chemical energy. Humans, for instance, obtain energy from food. In this unit, we will take a closer look at what energy is and explore how different cells acquire and use energy. Cell Division: One of the characteristics that defines life is the ability to grow and reproduce. In this unit we will focus on the ways different types of cells reproduce themselves. This unit will set the foundation for understanding concepts in heredity and genetics. Classical Genetics: Genetic information contains the instructions for carrying out life processes. In order for life to continue, organisms must pass information to the next generation. This unit discusses how genetic information is passed from one generation to the next. Molecular Genetics: Physical traits an organism displays are ultimately determined by the DNA found within the organism’s cells. In this unit, we will connect heredity to DNA, the genetic material of the cell. We will specifically explore DNA function and figure out how DNA determines the heritable traits that individual organisms can pass to their offspring. Evolution: Life changes and evolves over time. In this unit, we will examine the process of evolution, explicitly linking evolutionary change with the heritable characteristics we learned about in the previous the Classical Genetics and Molecular Genetics units. Ecology: Life senses and responds to external stimuli from the environment. Living organisms are able to maintain internal stability despite environmental changes through a process called homeostasis. In the Ecology unit, we will explore the complex ways in which living organisms interact with each other and their environment.   The Big Picture Our examination of the fundamental principles of biology will be an exploration of the following theories of life resulting from biological research. Life is organized into hierarchical levels. Life requires energy. Life grows, develops, and reproduces. Life responds to the environment and maintains internal stability through a process called homeostasis. Life evolves and the biological traits of successive generations adapt to the environment. The course is divided into 10 units. What follows is a brief overview of each unit and how it relates to the theories about life resulting from biological research: Biology - The Study of Life: In this first unit of the course, we set the foundation upon which the rest of the course is built. We define biology and its relationship to other fields of scientific study. We elaborate on the themes that characterize life and the theories resulting from biological research, and discuss the nature of the scientific inquiry. We will then start our methodical exploration of living systems, beginning with the building blocks that are not alive, but are required for life. We will explore how life is diverse and organized into hierarchical levels starting with the smallest chemical building blocks of life to the cell (the basic unit of life). Life is organized into hierarchical levels. Introduction to Chemistry: The atom is the fundamental unit of matter and in this unit you will learn about the atom and how atoms combine to form molecules. Then you will take a closer look at a very special molecule, water. Finally we will explore an important property that has significant effects on living systems: pH. Biological Macromolecules: In the “Introduction to Chemistry” unit, we introduce the idea that atoms can combine to form molecules. In this unit, we will focus in on the four classes of carbon-based macromolecules that comprise living systems: carbohydrates, fats, proteins and nucleic acids. The Cell: After exploring the world of atoms and molecules, we will put those building blocks together to construct the fundamental unit of life: the cell. In this unit, we will emphasize the parts of different kinds of cells and how the cell’s structure dictates its function. Life requires energy. Metabolism: Energy is required to sustain life. All organisms use a source of energy for their metabolic activities. Some organisms use energy from the sun while others use chemical energy. Humans, for instance, obtain energy from food. In this unit, we will take a closer look at what energy is and explore how different cells acquire and use energy. Life grows, develops, and reproduces. Cell Division: One of the characteristics that defines life is the ability to grow and reproduce. In this unit we will focus on the ways different types of cells reproduce themselves. This unit will set the foundation for understanding concepts in heredity and genetics. Classical Genetics: Genetic information contains the instructions for carrying out life processes. In order for life to continue, organisms must pass information to the next generation. This unit discusses how genetic information is passed from one generation to the next. Molecular Genetics: Physical traits an organism displays are ultimately determined by the DNA found within the organism’s cells. In this unit, we will connect heredity to DNA, the genetic material of the cell. We will specifically explore DNA function and figure out how DNA determines the heritable traits that individual organisms can pass to their offspring. Life evolves and successive generations adapt to the environment. Evolution: Life changes and evolves over time. In this unit, we will examine the process of evolution, explicitly linking evolutionary change with the heritable characteristics we learned about in the Classical and Molecular Genetics units. Life senses and responds to changes in the environment. Ecology: Life senses and responds to external stimuli from the environment. Living organisms are able to maintain internal stability despite environmental changes through a process called homeostasis. In the Ecology unit, we will explore the complex ways in which living organisms interact with each other and their environment. Introduction to Chemistry: The atom is the fundamental unit of matter and in this unit you will learn about the atom and how atoms combine to form molecules. Then you will take a closer look at a very special molecule, water. Finally we will explore an important property that has significant effects on living systems: pH. Biological Macromolecules: In the “Introduction to Chemistry” unit, we introduce the idea that atoms can combine to form molecules. In this unit, we will focus in on the four classes of carbon-based macromolecules that comprise living systems: carbohydrates, fats, proteins and nucleic acids. The Cell: After exploring the world of atoms and molecules, we will put those building blocks together to construct the fundamental unit of life: the cell. In this unit, we will emphasize the parts of different kinds of cells and how the cell’s structure dictates its function. Metabolism: Energy is required to sustain life. All organisms use a source of energy for their metabolic activities. Some organisms use energy from the sun while others use chemical energy. Humans, for instance, obtain energy from food. In this unit, we will take a closer look at what energy is and explore how different cells acquire and use energy. Cell Division: One of the characteristics that defines life is the ability to grow and reproduce. In this unit we will focus on the ways different types of cells reproduce themselves. This unit will set the foundation for understanding concepts in heredity and genetics. Classical Genetics: Genetic information contains the instructions for carrying out life processes. In order for life to continue, organisms must pass information to the next generation. This unit discusses how genetic information is passed from one generation to the next. Molecular Genetics: Physical traits an organism displays are ultimately determined by the DNA found within the organism’s cells. In this unit, we will connect heredity to DNA, the genetic material of the cell. We will specifically explore DNA function and figure out how DNA determines the heritable traits that individual organisms can pass to their offspring. Evolution: Life changes and evolves over time. In this unit, we will examine the process of evolution, explicitly linking evolutionary change with the heritable characteristics we learned about in the Classical and Molecular Genetics units. Ecology: Life senses and responds to external stimuli from the environment. Living organisms are able to maintain internal stability despite environmental changes through a process called homeostasis. In the Ecology unit, we will explore the complex ways in which living organisms interact with each other and their environment.   Hierarchy of life Learning objectives Describe and identify the levels of biological organization from molecules to the biosphere, noting the interrelationships between levels. Define and identify emergent properties. Levels of Organization Observe the following diagram. All living things consist of smaller parts that are organized in a hierarchical way. The term “hierarchy” (adjective: hierarchical) means that smaller and simpler levels are nested or contained within larger, more complex levels. Living things are highly organized and structured at levels that can be examined on a scale from small to large. In this course, the smallest level we will examine is the atom which is the basic unit of matter. The atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by electrons. Atoms join together to form molecules. A molecule is a chemical structure consisting of at least two atoms held together by a chemical bond. Macromolecules are large, biologically important molecules. When macromolecules are used as building blocks to form a membrane-bound space, you have a cell, which is the fundamental unit of life. A cell is essentially a tiny droplet of water and other molecules enclosed by a fluid “skin” or membrane. The cell is the smallest and simplest entity that possesses all the characteristics of life: it takes in energy and matter to grow, producing its own unique macromolecules. It senses and responds to changes in the environment. And it reproduces itself with the help of DNA, a macromolecule that stores information that helps to guide the cell’s growth. There are two main types of cells: prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The cells of prokaryotes are relatively small and simple; they do not have any clearly defined compartments inside of them. The cells of eukaryotes, by contrast, include membrane-bound organelles: compartments inside the cell that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. An organism is a cell or group of cells that lives and reproduces as a single unit. Organisms too small to be seen with the naked eye are called microorganisms. Some organisms consist of just one cell (they are unicellular) and include prokaryotes such as bacteria. Other organisms consist of many cells working together. These multicellular organisms include animals, land plants, and most fungi. Most multicellular organisms have cells that are specialized to carry out specific functions. Tissues are formed when many cells work together to fulfill the same detailed function. Organs are collections of tissues that work together to carry out a more general function. Organs are present not only in most animals but also in plants. An organ system is a higher level of organization that consists of functionally related organs. Perhaps an example would help clarify the nature of the levels between a cell and an organism. You, as an organism, have a circulatory system (organ system) that transports blood through the body. It is made up of organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Each of the organs, in turn, is made of more specific tissues. Your heart, for example, has muscle tissue for pumping and nerve tissue that helps coordinate each heartbeat. The hierarchical organization of living systems continues beyond single organisms. A population consists of all the individuals of the same kind living within a specific area. For example, a forest may include many pine trees. All those pine trees represent the population of pine trees in this forest. Many different populations living in the same area together form a community. Continuing with the case in point, the forest with pine trees includes populations of flowers, mammals, birds, insects, fungi, and bacteria, all of which can interact. These interacting populations make up a community. An ecosystem consists of all the living things in an area plus the abiotic or non-living parts of that environment. The pine forest ecosystem includes not just plants, animals, and microorganisms but also rocks, water, temperature changes, air chemistry, and other abiotic factors that interact with living organisms in the area. Finally, the highest level of organization in living systems is the biosphere, which is the collection of all ecosystems on Earth. The biosphere includes all habitable zones on the Earth, including water and ice; land, soil, and rocks to a great depth in the Earth’s crust; and the atmosphere to great height. Life: an emergent property Life is organized on levels of increasing complexity. The study of biology involves all these levels, from single atoms or molecules up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. As we ascend through this hierarchy to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that are not present in any of its component parts. Take, for example, an automobile. The separated parts of the automobile amount to a heap of junk. Only when properly assembled, with gas, the right key, and a human driver, does the car fulfill its function, which is to transport us from place to place. Emergent Properties Emergent properties are visualized in this diagram. If you zoom in on the photograph, it eventually appears as a collection of individual pixels, each of one color. Only when seen in relationship to each other do these pixels make sense as an image. If you zoom in on a cell, it looks like a random mixture of molecules. Only when they are organized within a cell do these molecules work together to permit life. Life is an emergent property, and one that appears at the cellular level of organization. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. Over 2000 years ago, Aristotle said “The whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.” In biology, this is a constant theme: we can learn much about a system by looking at its details, but we also must step back and look at the big picture to truly understand the workings of life. Activity #4 (new) DIGT: inline_first_emergent_property_level Observe the following diagram. All living things consist of smaller parts that are organized in a hierarchical way. The term “hierarchy” (adjective: hierarchical) means that smaller and simpler levels are nested or contained within larger, more complex levels. Living things are highly organized and structured at levels that can be examined on a scale from small to large. In this course, the smallest level we will examine is the atom which is the basic unit of matter. The atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by electrons. Atoms join together to form molecules. A molecule is a chemical structure consisting of at least two atoms held together by a chemical bond. Macromolecules are large, biologically important molecules. When macromolecules are used as building blocks to form a membrane-bound space, you have a cell, which is the fundamental unit of life. A cell is essentially a tiny droplet of water and other molecules enclosed by a fluid “skin” or membrane. The cell is the smallest and simplest entity that possesses all the characteristics of life: it takes in energy and matter to grow, producing its own unique macromolecules. It senses and responds to changes in the environment. And it reproduces itself with the help of DNA, a macromolecule that stores information that helps to guide the cell’s growth. There are two main types of cells: prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The cells of prokaryotes are relatively small and simple; they do not have any clearly defined compartments inside of them. The cells of eukaryotes, by contrast, include membrane-bound organelles: compartments inside the cell that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. An organism is a cell or group of cells that lives and reproduces as a single unit. Organisms too small to be seen with the naked eye are called microorganisms. Some organisms consist of just one cell (they are unicellular) and include prokaryotes such as bacteria. Other organisms consist of many cells working together. These multicellular organisms include animals, land plants, and most fungi. Most multicellular organisms have cells that are specialized to carry out specific functions. Tissues are formed when many cells work together to fulfill the same detailed function. Organs are collections of tissues that work together to carry out a more general function. Organs are present not only in most animals but also in plants. An organ system is a higher level of organization that consists of functionally related organs. Perhaps an example would help clarify the nature of the levels between a cell and an organism. You, as an organism, have a circulatory system (organ system) that transports blood through the body. It is made up of organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Each of the organs, in turn, is made of more specific tissues. Your heart, for example, has muscle tissue for pumping and nerve tissue that helps coordinate each heartbeat. The hierarchical organization of living systems continues beyond single organisms. A population consists of all the individuals of the same kind living within a specific area. For example, a forest may include many pine trees. All those pine trees represent the population of pine trees in this forest. Many different populations living in the same area together form a community. Continuing with the case in point, the forest with pine trees includes populations of flowers, mammals, birds, insects, fungi, and bacteria, all of which can interact. These interacting populations make up a community. An ecosystem consists of all the living things in an area plus the abiotic or non-living parts of that environment. The pine forest ecosystem includes not just plants, animals, and microorganisms but also rocks, water, temperature changes, air chemistry, and other abiotic factors that interact with living organisms in the area. Finally, the highest level of organization in living systems is the biosphere, which is the collection of all ecosystems on Earth. The biosphere includes all habitable zones on the Earth, including water and ice; land, soil, and rocks to a great depth in the Earth’s crust; and the atmosphere to great height. Life is organized on levels of increasing complexity. The study of biology involves all these levels, from single atoms or molecules up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. As we ascend through this hierarchy to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that are not present in any of its component parts. Take, for example, an automobile. The separated parts of the automobile amount to a heap of junk. Only when properly assembled, with gas, the right key, and a human driver, does the car fulfill its function, which is to transport us from place to place. Emergent Properties Emergent properties are visualized in this diagram. If you zoom in on the photograph, it eventually appears as a collection of individual pixels, each of one color. Only when seen in relationship to each other do these pixels make sense as an image. If you zoom in on a cell, it looks like a random mixture of molecules. Only when they are organized within a cell do these molecules work together to permit life. Life is an emergent property, and one that appears at the cellular level of organization. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. Over 2000 years ago, Aristotle said “The whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.” In biology, this is a constant theme: we can learn much about a system by looking at its details, but we also must step back and look at the big picture to truly understand the workings of life. Activity #4 (new) DIGT: inline_first_emergent_property_level   What is Life? Biology is the scientific study of life and is the branch of science that studies living organisms and the way organisms interact with their environments. The subject is vast and includes topics as diverse as acid rain, evolution, and genetically modified foods. In this module, you will investigate the definition of life and explore some of the characteristics of living systems. Biologists study many varieties of living organisms. Clockwise from top left: salmonella bacteria; a koala bear; a fern plant; fly amanita, a poisonous fungus; the red-eyed tree frog; a tarantula. Source: Andrew Colvin; August, 2010; Wikipedia. Biologists study how humans and other living organisms interact with their environment. A couple from Northern Thailand. The husband is carrying the stem of a banana plant, which will be fed to their pigs. Source: Manuel Jobi Weltenbummler, 2007, Wikipedia. Characteristics of Life There are five distinct qualities used to determine whether or not something is (or was) alive. A living organism is something that displays all these qualities. To be considered alive, something must: Be made of materials organized in a hierarchical pattern. Use energy and raw materials to survive. Sense and respond to changing environments and maintain internal stability, or homeostasis. Grow, develop and reproduce with the help of DNA. Evolve. The cell is the smallest unit that displays all of these characteristics. Because of this, living organisms are often identified based on whether or not they are made of cells. Nonliving things can show several of these characteristics. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. However, if even one of these conditions is not met (rock crystals do not reproduce with help from DNA), the object in question cannot be considered alive. Classification of Matter Matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space. All matter can be classified in one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (nonliving). Matter is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made by, a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is an abiotic substance. To be classified as biotic, all of the required conditions for life must be met or have been met in the past. Otherwise, the matter being classified is considered to be abiotic, or nonliving. There are five distinct qualities used to determine whether or not something is (or was) alive. A living organism is something that displays all these qualities. To be considered alive, something must: Be made of materials organized in a hierarchical pattern. Use energy and raw materials to survive. Sense and respond to changing environments and maintain internal stability, or homeostasis. Grow, develop and reproduce with the help of DNA. Evolve. The cell is the smallest unit that displays all of these characteristics. Because of this, living organisms are often identified based on whether or not they are made of cells. Nonliving things can show several of these characteristics. For example, a rock crystal can “grow” in a simple fashion. However, if even one of these conditions is not met (rock crystals do not reproduce with help from DNA), the object in question cannot be considered alive. Matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space. All matter can be classified in one of two categories: biotic (living) or abiotic (nonliving). Matter is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time. In this sense, a dead human buried underground in a wooden coffin is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made by, a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a chemical component of urine, is an abiotic substance. To be classified as biotic, all of the required conditions for life must be met or have been met in the past. Otherwise, the matter being classified is considered to be abiotic, or nonliving.   Hierarchy of Life Levels of Organization Observe the following diagram. All living things consist of smaller parts that are organized in a hierarchical way. Living things are highly organized and structured, following a hierarchy that can be examined on a scale from small to large. In this course, the smallest level we will examine is the atom, which is the basic unit of matter. The atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by electrons. Atoms join together to form molecules. A molecule is a chemical structure consisting of at least two atoms held together by a chemical bond. Macromolecules are biologically important molecules, and they are technically polymers. Polymers are made by combining smaller units called monomers, which are simpler macromolecules. An example of a macromolecule is the genetic molecule deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) that contains the instructions for the development of all living organisms. DNA is built of four kinds of monomers (nucleotides). They are strung together, or polymerized, in a sequence that codes for the structure of proteins and other biological molecules. The DNA in one of your microscopic cells contains a sequence of almost three billion nucleotides. When macromolecules are used as building blocks to form a membrane-bound sphere, you have a cell, which is the fundamental unit of life. A cell is essentially a tiny droplet of water and other molecules enclosed by a fluid “skin” or membrane. The cell is the smallest and simplest entity that possesses all the characteristics of life. There are two main types of cells: prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The cells of prokaryotes are relatively small and simple; they do not have any clearly defined compartments inside of them. The cells of eukaryotes, by contrast, include membrane-bound organelles: compartments inside the cell that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. One of these organelles is the nucleus; it encloses the DNA within the cell. Some organisms consist of just one cell and include unicellular organisms such as bacteria and protists. Single-celled life forms are typically referred to as microorganisms. Other organisms consist of many cells working together. These multicellular organisms include animals, land plants, and most fungi. Most multicellular organisms have cells that are specialized to carry out specific functions. Tissues are formed when many different kinds of cells work together to fulfill the same detailed function. Organs are collections of tissues that work together to carry out a common general function. Organs are present not only in higher level animals but also in plants. An organ system is a higher level of organization that consists of functionally related organs. Mammals have many organ systems. For example, the circulatory system transports blood through the body and includes organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Organisms are individual living entities that survive and reproduce as a unit. For example, each tree in a forest is usually an individual organism. Consider this example to help clarify the nature of the levels between a cell and an organism. A human is an organism which has a circulatory system (organ system) that transports blood through the body. It is made up of organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Each of the organs, in turn, is made of more specific tissues. Your heart, for example, has muscle tissue for pumping and nerve tissue that helps coordinate each heartbeat. The hierarchical organization of living systems continues beyond single organisms. A population consists of all the individuals of a species living within a specific area. For example, a forest may include many pine trees. All those pine trees represent the population of pine trees in that forest. As you know, many different populations can live in any specific area. All of these populations can interact with each other in positive and negative ways, and together they form a community. Continuing with our example, the forest with pine trees includes populations of flowers, mammals, birds, insects, fungi, and bacteria, all of which can interact. These interacting populations make up a community. An ecosystem consists of all the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic, or nonliving, parts of that environment. The pine forest ecosystem includes not just plants, animals, and microbes but also rocks, water, temperature changes, air chemistry, and other abiotic factors that interact with living organisms in the area. Finally, the highest level of organization in living systems is the biosphere, which is the collection of all ecosystems on Earth. The biosphere includes all habitable zones on the planet, including land, soil, and rocks to a great depth in the Earth’s crust; water and ice; and the atmosphere to a great height. Observe the following diagram. All living things consist of smaller parts that are organized in a hierarchical way. Living things are highly organized and structured, following a hierarchy that can be examined on a scale from small to large. In this course, the smallest level we will examine is the atom, which is the basic unit of matter. The atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by electrons. Atoms join together to form molecules. A molecule is a chemical structure consisting of at least two atoms held together by a chemical bond. Macromolecules are biologically important molecules, and they are technically polymers. Polymers are made by combining smaller units called monomers, which are simpler macromolecules. An example of a macromolecule is the genetic molecule deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) that contains the instructions for the development of all living organisms. DNA is built of four kinds of monomers (nucleotides). They are strung together, or polymerized, in a sequence that codes for the structure of proteins and other biological molecules. The DNA in one of your microscopic cells contains a sequence of almost three billion nucleotides. When macromolecules are used as building blocks to form a membrane-bound sphere, you have a cell, which is the fundamental unit of life. A cell is essentially a tiny droplet of water and other molecules enclosed by a fluid “skin” or membrane. The cell is the smallest and simplest entity that possesses all the characteristics of life. There are two main types of cells: prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The cells of prokaryotes are relatively small and simple; they do not have any clearly defined compartments inside of them. The cells of eukaryotes, by contrast, include membrane-bound organelles: compartments inside the cell that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. One of these organelles is the nucleus; it encloses the DNA within the cell. Some organisms consist of just one cell and include unicellular organisms such as bacteria and protists. Single-celled life forms are typically referred to as microorganisms. Other organisms consist of many cells working together. These multicellular organisms include animals, land plants, and most fungi. Most multicellular organisms have cells that are specialized to carry out specific functions. Tissues are formed when many different kinds of cells work together to fulfill the same detailed function. Organs are collections of tissues that work together to carry out a common general function. Organs are present not only in higher level animals but also in plants. An organ system is a higher level of organization that consists of functionally related organs. Mammals have many organ systems. For example, the circulatory system transports blood through the body and includes organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Organisms are individual living entities that survive and reproduce as a unit. For example, each tree in a forest is usually an individual organism. Consider this example to help clarify the nature of the levels between a cell and an organism. A human is an organism which has a circulatory system (organ system) that transports blood through the body. It is made up of organs such as the heart and blood vessels. Each of the organs, in turn, is made of more specific tissues. Your heart, for example, has muscle tissue for pumping and nerve tissue that helps coordinate each heartbeat. The hierarchical organization of living systems continues beyond single organisms. A population consists of all the individuals of a species living within a specific area. For example, a forest may include many pine trees. All those pine trees represent the population of pine trees in that forest. As you know, many different populations can live in any specific area. All of these populations can interact with each other in positive and negative ways, and together they form a community. Continuing with our example, the forest with pine trees includes populations of flowers, mammals, birds, insects, fungi, and bacteria, all of which can interact. These interacting populations make up a community. An ecosystem consists of all the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic, or nonliving, parts of that environment. The pine forest ecosystem includes not just plants, animals, and microbes but also rocks, water, temperature changes, air chemistry, and other abiotic factors that interact with living organisms in the area. Finally, the highest level of organization in living systems is the biosphere, which is the collection of all ecosystems on Earth. The biosphere includes all habitable zones on the planet, including land, soil, and rocks to a great depth in the Earth’s crust; water and ice; and the atmosphere to a great height.   Hierarchy of Life This module will introduce the hierarchy of living matter from the cell to human organisms. Levels of Organization Life is organized on hierarchical levels of increasing complexity. Biologists look at all levels of aspects of life, past and present. This journey takes them all the way down to atoms and molecules, and all the way up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. As we ascend to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that do not appear in any of its component parts. Think about a photograph. A photograph will show a composition conveying a message. Can you explain that composition based only on the tiny pixels (dots) that make up the image? A more biological example would be life, an emergent property that appears at the cellular level. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. Development of this course page is in progress. Check back later. Life is organized on hierarchical levels of increasing complexity. Biologists look at all levels of aspects of life, past and present. This journey takes them all the way down to atoms and molecules, and all the way up to global relationships among organisms and the environment. As we ascend to more and more complex levels, emergent properties appear. These are characteristics of a system that do not appear in any of its component parts. Think about a photograph. A photograph will show a composition conveying a message. Can you explain that composition based only on the tiny pixels (dots) that make up the image? A more biological example would be life, an emergent property that appears at the cellular level. Molecules are not alive, but they are the components of life. Development of this course page is in progress. Check back later.   Introduction to Biology: Summary Summary As you’ve seen, life is an emergent property characterized by specific qualities. The cell is the first level of organization that is alive and therefore the cell is considered the fundamental unit of life. In the next module, you will learn about several themes that emerge when studying living systems. These themes will appear over and over throughout this course. But before moving onto the next module, take some time to review the content you’ve learned so far. You can start by making sure you’re comfortable with the key terms listed below. When you are ready, you can check your understanding of this module by taking the “Introduction to Biology” quiz. Key Terms Biology is a subject full of new vocabulary. Sometimes people studying biology feel like they are learning a new language, and they almost are. Check your understanding of the following key terms that were discussed during this module: abiotic biotic ecosystem molecule organ system atom cell emergent properties organ population biology chemistry macromolecule organelle tissue biosphere community microorganism organism As you’ve seen, life is an emergent property characterized by specific qualities. The cell is the first level of organization that is alive and therefore the cell is considered the fundamental unit of life. In the next module, you will learn about several themes that emerge when studying living systems. These themes will appear over and over throughout this course. But before moving onto the next module, take some time to review the content you’ve learned so far. You can start by making sure you’re comfortable with the key terms listed below. When you are ready, you can check your understanding of this module by taking the “Introduction to Biology” quiz. Biology is a subject full of new vocabulary. Sometimes people studying biology feel like they are learning a new language, and they almost are. Check your understanding of the following key terms that were discussed during this module: abiotic biotic ecosystem molecule organ system atom cell emergent properties organ population biology chemistry macromolecule organelle tissue biosphere community microorganism organism   What is Life? This course is a brief introduction to the principles of biology. In this section, you will learn what is biology and why it matters. We will start by distinquishing living from non-living things. Living vs. Non-living Matter All matter can be classified into one of two groups: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Something is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time; in this sense, a deceased individual buried in a wooden coffin underground is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a component of urine, is abiotic. All biotic (living) things: Require energy and raw materials to survive Sense and respond to change Grow and reproduce with the help of DNA Consist of one or more cells If any one of the above conditions are not met, that being classified is considered to be abiotic (non-living) . . . Development of this course page is in progress. Please check back later. All matter can be classified into one of two groups: biotic (living) or abiotic (non-living). Something is considered biotic if it was ever alive at some point in time; in this sense, a deceased individual buried in a wooden coffin underground is still biotic, as is the wood used to make the coffin (the wood came from a tree that was once alive). However, not everything within, or made, by a biotic organism is biotic. For example, urea, a component of urine, is abiotic. All biotic (living) things: Require energy and raw materials to survive Sense and respond to change Grow and reproduce with the help of DNA Consist of one or more cells If any one of the above conditions are not met, that being classified is considered to be abiotic (non-living) . . . Development of this course page is in progress. Please check back later.   Introduction to Biology Welcome to OLI’s Introduction to Biological Principles! We are happy you have joined us in our exploration of the fundamental principles of biology. But before we begin, it is first necessary to consider what Biology actually is. In its most basic definition, biology is the scientific study of life. That is to say biology is the branch of science that studies life, living organisms, and the way organisms interact with their environment. As shown on the figure below, science can be broken down into two main branches - natural sciences and social and behavioral sciences. Biology is a branch of natural sciences the encompasses all of the related sub-branches (e.g. ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology) that all study different aspects of living organisms. The other branch of natural sciences is the physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though science is broken down into branches and sub-branches of study all of science is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to understand something of the chemical composition of that signal, so chemistry is important for biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aide in the understanding of certain behaviors, so biology is important for the social and behavioral sciences. Figure 1: This diagram shows the organization of the branches of science. Notice how biology is broken down into many sub-branches, and is closely related to the branches of physical science. Now that we have a better understanding of what biology is, it is next important to ask why we are interested in studying it. Why does it matter if we learn biology? This lies in the fact that we (humans) are living organisms, and understanding the principles of biology helps us to better understand ourselves and the world around us. Have you ever been sick with an infection and told you needed to take an antibiotic to help you get better? Well, some scientists have studied infections and found that they are caused by microorganisms (very small life forms). Other scientists have studied how these microorganisms live so that medications could be developed that will kill the microorganisms but not harm you. Biology helps to keep us well. Have you ever heard a news report about acid rain and wondered is it really that big of a deal? There are scientists who study ecology and are investigating what happens to the health of eco-systems when acid rain falls. Have you ever wondered if there could be life in space, on the moon, or on Mars? There are scientists who study astrobiology to help answer those questions. Do you know someone who has cancer? Cell biologists are helping to find cures and treatments for cancer so that in the future cancer will not be a deadly disease. In short, biology and science are all around us. To better understand the world around us and your own life and health, it is essential that you know something of the principles of biology that are at work all day, everyday day in our bodies and on the planet. DIDIGETTHIS: inline_what-is-biology Now that you have a better understanding of what Biology is, we are next going to consider what is the difference between living and non-living things. Then you will be introduced to the common themes of the course: Energy, Pathways and Regulation. You will find that these three concepts appear over and over again throughout the course. Next this unit will focus on the Hierarchy of Life. That is to say, you will begin to see how all of life is built from smaller things that combine to form larger more complex ones. Lastly, we will discuss the Scientific Method which is the foundation of scientific inquiry and exploration. Development of this course page is in progress. Please check back later.   Scientific Inquiry: A Method of Knowing Biology: A Branch of Science Biology is an example of a scientific field that deals with understanding living organisms. Chemistry is a scientific field that deals with understanding atoms and molecules. Overall, scientific fields can be broken down into two main branches: natural sciences, and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science that includes many related sub-branches, such as ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology. Each sub-branch of biology examines different aspects of living organisms. Other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though scientific knowledge is broken into branches and sub-branches of study, the knowledge gained from the various scientific disciplines is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so the science of chemistry is important to understand the science of biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in understanding the human behaviors studied in the social and behavioral sciences. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. This diagram shows the organization of the branches of science. Notice how biology is broken down into many sub-branches, and is closely related to physical sciences such as physics, chemistry, and geology. Scientific Methods The rest of this module will focus on the methods of scientific inquiry. Contrary to many science textbooks, there is no single, universal scientific method. Scientists apply many methods to their research and there is no single, correct sequence of scientific activities. Some types of research require hypothesis testing and strict, controlled laboratory conditions. Other types of research describe and categorize organisms living in an area and the types of habitats they prefer. The type of research being conducted by a scientist will determine research design, the methods and tools used to gather and analyze data, and the ability of scientists to generalize their findings beyond their study. Often this means scientists will make observations before defining the problem or forming a hypothesis! A scientific experiment is a carefully organized procedure in which the scientist intervenes in a system to change something, and then observes the result of the change. Scientific inquiry often involves doing experiments, though not always. For example, a scientist studying the mating behaviors of ladybugs might begin with detailed observations of ladybugs mating in their natural habitats. While this research may not be experimental, it is scientific: it involves careful and verifiable observation of the natural world. The same scientist might then treat some of the ladybugs with a hormone hypothesized to trigger mating and observe whether these ladybugs mated sooner or more often than untreated ones. This would qualify as an experiment because the scientist is now making a change in the system and observing the effects. Once a scientist has made a significant discovery or has gathered data to enhance what is already known, that scientist will communicate these findings by publishing their work in a peer-reviewed journal. Peer review is considered the hallmark of scientific communication. Before a paper is published, it is read and critiqued by other scientists. Peer review is one way scientific information is scrutinized before it is accepted as a part of mainstream science. Biology is an example of a scientific field that deals with understanding living organisms. Chemistry is a scientific field that deals with understanding atoms and molecules. Overall, scientific fields can be broken down into two main branches: natural sciences, and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science that includes many related sub-branches, such as ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology. Each sub-branch of biology examines different aspects of living organisms. Other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though scientific knowledge is broken into branches and sub-branches of study, the knowledge gained from the various scientific disciplines is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so the science of chemistry is important to understand the science of biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in understanding the human behaviors studied in the social and behavioral sciences. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. This diagram shows the organization of the branches of science. Notice how biology is broken down into many sub-branches, and is closely related to physical sciences such as physics, chemistry, and geology. The rest of this module will focus on the methods of scientific inquiry. Contrary to many science textbooks, there is no single, universal scientific method. Scientists apply many methods to their research and there is no single, correct sequence of scientific activities. Some types of research require hypothesis testing and strict, controlled laboratory conditions. Other types of research describe and categorize organisms living in an area and the types of habitats they prefer. The type of research being conducted by a scientist will determine research design, the methods and tools used to gather and analyze data, and the ability of scientists to generalize their findings beyond their study. Often this means scientists will make observations before defining the problem or forming a hypothesis! A scientific experiment is a carefully organized procedure in which the scientist intervenes in a system to change something, and then observes the result of the change. Scientific inquiry often involves doing experiments, though not always. For example, a scientist studying the mating behaviors of ladybugs might begin with detailed observations of ladybugs mating in their natural habitats. While this research may not be experimental, it is scientific: it involves careful and verifiable observation of the natural world. The same scientist might then treat some of the ladybugs with a hormone hypothesized to trigger mating and observe whether these ladybugs mated sooner or more often than untreated ones. This would qualify as an experiment because the scientist is now making a change in the system and observing the effects. Once a scientist has made a significant discovery or has gathered data to enhance what is already known, that scientist will communicate these findings by publishing their work in a peer-reviewed journal. Peer review is considered the hallmark of scientific communication. Before a paper is published, it is read and critiqued by other scientists. Peer review is one way scientific information is scrutinized before it is accepted as a part of mainstream science.   What Is Science? Science: What Is It? Science is a process that helps us to understand how the natural world works. When we use the term “natural” in this context, we mean all that can be observed with our senses or with instruments that extend our senses. The “natural” world studied by science can be reliably observed and measured, from the far reaches of outer space to the man-made chemicals in our air and water. This module will examine the process of science and explore how science has led to an increased understanding of living organisms. Biology: A Branch of Science Biology is an example of a scientific field that deals with understanding living organisms. Chemistry is a scientific field that deals with understanding atoms and molecules. Overall, scientific fields can be broken down into two main branches: natural sciences, and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science that includes many related sub-branches, such as ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology. Each sub-branch of biology examines different aspects of living organisms. Other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though scientific knowledge is broken into branches and sub-branches of study, the knowledge gained from the various scientific disciplines is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so the science of chemistry is important to understand the science of biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in understanding the human behaviors studied in the social and behavioral sciences. Breakdown of Scientific Disciplines By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. This diagram shows the organization of the branches of science. Notice how biology is broken down into many sub-branches, and is closely related to physical sciences such as physics, chemistry, and geology. Science is a process that helps us to understand how the natural world works. When we use the term “natural” in this context, we mean all that can be observed with our senses or with instruments that extend our senses. The “natural” world studied by science can be reliably observed and measured, from the far reaches of outer space to the man-made chemicals in our air and water. This module will examine the process of science and explore how science has led to an increased understanding of living organisms. Biology is an example of a scientific field that deals with understanding living organisms. Chemistry is a scientific field that deals with understanding atoms and molecules. Overall, scientific fields can be broken down into two main branches: natural sciences, and social and behavioral sciences. Social and behavioral sciences focus on human cultures and the behaviors of humans in groups and as individuals. Biology is a natural science that includes many related sub-branches, such as ecology, biochemistry, and microbiology. Each sub-branch of biology examines different aspects of living organisms. Other natural sciences are physical sciences like chemistry and physics. It is important to remember that even though scientific knowledge is broken into branches and sub-branches of study, the knowledge gained from the various scientific disciplines is interconnected. For instance, to understand how a cell responds to a certain environmental signal, it is necessary to know about the chemical composition of that signal, so the science of chemistry is important to understand the science of biology. Likewise, understanding how the brain functions (neuroscience) can aid in understanding the human behaviors studied in the social and behavioral sciences. Breakdown of Scientific Disciplines By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. This diagram shows the organization of the branches of science. Notice how biology is broken down into many sub-branches, and is closely related to physical sciences such as physics, chemistry, and geology.   CC-OLI Biology Course Organization The community college open learning initiative (CC-OLI) biology course covers a subset of the topical sub-divisions of the field of biology. This course includes a brief introduction to what biology is and some fundamental principles such as an introduction to biological chemistry, basic structure and function of the cell, and essentials of metabolsim. Development of this course page is in progress. Check back later.   Unit Introduction: Ecology What is Ecology? In exploring biology thus far, we have focused on life from the “skin in”—you have learned about the structure and function of cells and have explored the chemical processes that enable life. But biology does not stop with this inward-looking perspective. Biology also looks from the skin out at the individual’s life in context. Biologists explore how you and other organisms get food, how you change the world around you and in turn are influenced by factors like temperature, environmental toxins, and other organisms. Ecology examines how groups of living organisms interact with each other and with nonliving factors in their environment. Ecology is the branch of biology that studies life at population and higher levels of organization, emphasizing how groups of living organisms interact with each other and with nonliving factors in their environment. The main levels of analysis in ecology are population, community, ecosystem, and biosphere. Let's examine the meaning of these terms to see how they differ from one another, and yet build upon one another. The diagram below summarizes how the levels of analysis relate and gives a specific example (the forest) to guide your understanding. Ecology’s Levels of Analysis Ecology focuses on interactions at the population level and above. In the diagram above, the hierarchy is shown visually. Individuals of a species that live in the same area make up a population. All the populations in a region make up a community. Many different nonliving factors are also at work in the same area. If we consider these factors as well, we are thinking at the ecosystem level. Together, many different types of regional ecosystems make up the global ecosystem, the biosphere. Within an area defined by the ecologist, individuals of a single species that live together and may breed with each other make up a population. All of the different populations of living organisms living within an area make up an ecological community. In the example above, the squirrels and sugar maples of a region, together with humans plus hundreds of additional populations of plants, animals, fungi, bacteria, and other organisms would make up a forest community. The forest ecosystem also includes non-living factors such as chemicals in the soil, rainfall and other climate factors, and countless other features of the environment that interact with living things in the region. Additional ecosystems (lakes, grasslands, oceans, etc.) share our Earth with the forest ecosystem. Together, all of the zones of Earth that support life make up a giant interconnected system called the biosphere. Many students have some difficulty distinguishing between the definitions of ecological community and ecosystem. The community and ecosystem levels can cover exactly the same area: communities are not literally “smaller than” or “contained within” ecosystems. Instead, the ecosystem is a different way of looking at an area that includes a broader set of factors and processes than the community level of analysis. The community ecologist looks at a forest and sees particular types of birds, trees, fungi, and insects eating each other and otherwise interacting. The ecosystem ecologist looks at the same forest and may see the organisms in less detail, but also considers how the trees build the soil or how floods shape the landscape. In exploring biology thus far, we have focused on life from the “skin in”—you have learned about the structure and function of cells and have explored the chemical processes that enable life. But biology does not stop with this inward-looking perspective. Biology also looks from the skin out at the individual’s life in context. Biologists explore how you and other organisms get food, how you change the world around you and in turn are influenced by factors like temperature, environmental toxins, and other organisms. Ecology examines how groups of living organisms interact with each other and with nonliving factors in their environment. Ecology is the branch of biology that studies life at population and higher levels of organization, emphasizing how groups of living organisms interact with each other and with nonliving factors in their environment. The main levels of analysis in ecology are population, community, ecosystem, and biosphere. Let's examine the meaning of these terms to see how they differ from one another, and yet build upon one another. The diagram below summarizes how the levels of analysis relate and gives a specific example (the forest) to guide your understanding. Ecology’s Levels of Analysis Ecology focuses on interactions at the population level and above. In the diagram above, the hierarchy is shown visually. Individuals of a species that live in the same area make up a population. All the populations in a region make up a community. Many different nonliving factors are also at work in the same area. If we consider these factors as well, we are thinking at the ecosystem level. Together, many different types of regional ecosystems make up the global ecosystem, the biosphere. Within an area defined by the ecologist, individuals of a single species that live together and may breed with each other make up a population. All of the different populations of living organisms living within an area make up an ecological community. In the example above, the squirrels and sugar maples of a region, together with humans plus hundreds of additional populations of plants, animals, fungi, bacteria, and other organisms would make up a forest community. The forest ecosystem also includes non-living factors such as chemicals in the soil, rainfall and other climate factors, and countless other features of the environment that interact with living things in the region. Additional ecosystems (lakes, grasslands, oceans, etc.) share our Earth with the forest ecosystem. Together, all of the zones of Earth that support life make up a giant interconnected system called the biosphere. Many students have some difficulty distinguishing between the definitions of ecological community and ecosystem. The community and ecosystem levels can cover exactly the same area: communities are not literally “smaller than” or “contained within” ecosystems. Instead, the ecosystem is a different way of looking at an area that includes a broader set of factors and processes than the community level of analysis. The community ecologist looks at a forest and sees particular types of birds, trees, fungi, and insects eating each other and otherwise interacting. The ecosystem ecologist looks at the same forest and may see the organisms in less detail, but also considers how the trees build the soil or how floods shape the landscape.   Unit Summary: Biological Macromolecules Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism. In this unit, you learned about the four classes of biological macromolecules that form the fundamental building blocks of the cell. In this unit, you learned about the contents of a cell from a molecular point of view. Chemistry is fundamental to life’s unity; it helps us grasp how all cells maintain a stable internal environment, grow, reproduce, and process energy. Chemistry also helps to explain the incredible diversity of life. In particular, an understanding of protein structure helps us see how life takes on such endless variety. Carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids each have distinct properties that emerge due to their chemical structure and formation of large assemblies. You should be able to relate the structure of macromolecules to their function. Key questions that you should be able to answer are: Can you identify these compounds based on their chemical structure? How do building blocks form larger structures? For example, how do phospholipid molecules join to form membranes? How do glucose monomers join to form polysaccharides? Can you compare the structure and function of cellulose versus starch or glycogen? How are they the same? How are they different? What are the biochemical functions of these compounds? What type of lipid is used for energy storage? How do saturated and unsaturated fats differ in their structure and function? What property of phospholipids causes membranes to spontaneously form? What property of amino acids causes proteins to fold into their active form? How do unfolded proteins differ from denatured proteins? What is the difference between a ligand, substrate, and enzyme inhibitor? What is responsible for the specific binding of ligands, substrates, or inhibitors to proteins? How do enzymes accelerate chemical reactions? What are the structural differences and similarities between DNA and RNA? What is the origin of the base pairing rules in DNA? How is the genetic information in DNA used to produce a protein?   Unit Summary: Biological Macromolecules Biological systems use only a small part of the total chemical repertoire. This is due to the number of chemical reactions that can occur under physiological conditions, and to the small number of chemical or functional groups compatible in biological systems. The physical properties of these groups define how molecules behave in biological systems at physiological pH and temperature. By learning the properties of these groups, you will be able to predict how various molecules will function, as well as which functional groups can be converted to others during metabolism. In this unit, you learned about the four classes of biological macromolecules that form the building blocks of the cell — the cell from a molecular point of view. Chemistry is fundamental to life’s unity; it helps us grasp how all cells maintain a stable internal environment, grow, reproduce, and process energy. Chemistry also helps to explain the incredible diversity of life. In particular, an understanding of protein structure helps us see how life takes on such endless variety. Carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids each have distinct properties that emerge due to their chemical structure and formation of large assemblies. You should be able to relate the structure of macromolecules to their function. Two important small organic molecules that you should be familiar with are the carbohydrate glucose and the nucleic acid ATP. Can you describe the role of ATP and glucose in biology? Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity Stop for a moment and reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. Formulate questions you still have regarding the content, and submit them in the My Response text box. Stop for a moment and reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. Formulate questions you still have regarding the content, and submit them in the My Response text box.   Introduction to Biological Chemistry There is a great diversity among living things. Biology is a study of the diversity and the commonalities of living organisms. Living and nonliving things are made of matter. What distinguishes living things are their need for energy, their ability to grow and reproduce, their response to environmental stimuli and their ability to evolve. All living organisms share the same levels of organization and the levels move from the simple to more complex. Organisms are made from the same set of building blocks, atoms, which combine to form molecules. Small molecules are brought together to form more complex biological macromolecules. The next level of organization is the organelle. Atoms, molecules, macromolecules and organelles form cells, the smallest unit of life. The most complex and all encompassing level is the biosphere. The levels of organization are depicted in the figure below: Living and non-living matter are organized into levels of increasingly complex structures. Biology is the study of the living components of the hierarchy. However, an understanding of the chemical foundations of life is essential for understanding how life functions. In this unit (or module) we will start with the atom and the subatomic particles that form the atom and move to a discussion of molecules and the four biologically important macromolecules, carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. Water is a very important molecule in living systems and it has some unique properties that will be discussed. Development of this course page is in progress. Please check back later. Development of this course page is in progress. Please check back later.   The Atom In this module, you will learn about the basic structure of the atom, the fundamental unit of matter. Living things are made up of atoms arranged in a complex and nonrandom way. This is one of the common features of all living organisms. The atom is the smallest level in the hierarchy of life that we will explore in this course. Understanding the properties of atoms allows us to predict and understand how atoms interact with one another to build molecules, such as hormones and DNA. In addition, an understanding of atoms allows us to predict how cells will react to different therapeutic drugs and toxins in the environment.   Introduction to Biological Chemistry Biology is a study of the diversity and the commonalities of living organisms. Living and nonliving things are made of matter. What distinguishes living things are their need for energy, their ability to grow and reproduce, their response to environmental stimuli and their ability to evolve. Life can be understood and studied at many levels of organization, from simpler to more inclusive or complex levels. Organisms are made from a common set of building blocks, atoms, which combine to form molecules. Small molecules are brought together to form more complex biological macromolecules. The next level of organization is the organelle. Organelles are working units within cells. Atoms, molecules, macromolecules and organelles form cells, the smallest unit of life. Only cells or multicellular organisms have all the properties of life. The most complex and all encompassing level is the biosphere. The levels of organization are depicted in the figure below : Levels of Organization The following image represnts the levels of organization of matter from simple (1) to complex (6), as seen above. In the following questions you are given an example of each of the first six types of substances listed. Match the example to where it belongs on the diagram based on the type of substance and its complexity. Biology is the study of the living components of the hierarchy. However, an understanding of the chemical foundations of life is essential for understanding how life functions. In this unit we will start with the atom and the subatomic particles that form the atom and move to a discussion of molecules and the four biologically important macromolecules, carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. We will also discuss water as it has unique properties and is a very important molecule in living systems.   Introduction to Chemistry Unit The cell is the fundamental unit of life; therefore, you might think that your study of biology should begin with the cell. In fact, before we can understand a complex structure like a cell, we must learn about the building blocks from which cells are made. Think back to the Introduction to Biology module in this course, when you learned that all life exhibits a hierarchical organization. Cells are the first level of organization that display the properties of life; but, their component parts (atoms and molecules) are not alive, as illustrated in the inverted pyramid below. To make sense of how cells work, we must constantly return to their parts (molecules) and the interactions among them. This is why a clear understanding of some chemistry is essential to understanding how life functions. In this unit we will begin by studying the atom and the subatomic particles that form the atom. We will then discuss the way atoms combine to form molecules through chemical bonds. We will take a closer look at water, whose unique properties make it a very important molecule in living systems. Finally, we’ll examine the concept of pH and discuss its implications for life.   Introduction to Chemistry The cell is the fundamental unit of life; therefore, you might think that your study of biology should begin with the cell. In fact, before we can understand a complex structure like a cell, we must learn about the building blocks from which cells are made. Think back to the Introduction to Biology module in this course, when you learned that all life exhibits a hierarchical organization. Cells are the first level of organization that display the properties of life; but, their component parts (atoms and molecules) are not alive, as illustrated in the inverted pyramid below. To make sense of how cells work, we must constantly return to their parts (atoms and molecules) and the interactions among them. You will learn, later in this unit, that atoms are the fundamental unit of matter, and that 92 different types of atoms (called elements) occur naturally on earth. Biological systems use only a small subset of the elements (approximately 10 %) found on earth. By learning about the characteristics of this subset of atoms, and a limited set of functional groups found in biological molecules, you will be able to identify, and predict many of the reactions that can take place in cells, understand and predict the physical properties of the molecules made by these reactions, and develop an understanding of why a process occurs as it does in a cell. Biological systems use a small subset of Earth's elements Roll over each axis for details on the constraints biological systems make on that axis. The blue cube represents the chemical universe as defined by temperature (in Kelvin) on one axis, pH on another, and the elements on the third. The small orange interior cube represents the part of chemistry that occurs in cells. 310K is average human body temperature (37˚C or 98.6˚F). In this unit, we will begin by studying the atom and the subatomic particles that form the atom. We will proceed by examining the way atoms combine to form molecules through chemical bonds. We will then examine the chemistry of water as it relates to bonding. We will take a closer look at water, because the cellular environment is essentially aqueous (water) based. Finally, we discuss a concept called pH, and its implications for life and temperature control.   Introduction to Chemistry Matter is anything that has mass and takes up space. The chair you are sitting in is made of atoms. The food you ate for lunch was built from atoms. Even the air you breathe is made of atoms. In this unit, we will learn more about atoms, the fundamental unit of matter. All matter is made of atoms. There are 92 different kinds of atoms that can be put together in unique ways, resulting in all the diverse things you see around you. The cell is the fundamental unit of life; therefore, you might think that your study of biology should begin with the cell. In fact, before you can truly understand how a cell functions, you must understand the building blocks from which cells are made. In the Introduction to Biology module, you learned that all life exhibits a hierarchical organization. While cells are the first level of organization that displays all the properties of life, their component parts (atoms and molecules) are not alive, as illustrated in the inverted pyramid below. To make sense of how cells work, you must constantly return to their parts (atoms and molecules) and the interactions among them. This is why a clear understanding of some chemistry is essential to understanding how life functions. This unit will focus on the atom. You will learn how atoms combine to form different molecules, making up all the diverse matter you see around you. In this unit, you will explore only nonliving components of the hierarchy of life.   Unit Introduction: Biological Macromolecules In our exploration of biology, you have learned that matter is organized into hierarchical levels starting with non-living entities (atoms and subatomic particles) to the cell (the first level of life) to complex organisms (plants and animals) to the biosphere. In the previous unit, “Introduction to Chemistry,” you learned that atoms can combine to form molecules. In this unit, we’ll take a closer look at a special group of molecules: the biological macromolecules. Like all organic molecules, biological macromolecules contain hydrogen atoms that form covalent bonds with carbon atoms. There are four significant classes of biological macromolecules: carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. These macromolecules are the building blocks that are used to form the cell, which is the fundamental unit of life.   Unit Introduction: Biological Macromolecules In the Introduction to Chemistry unit, you learned that atoms are the building blocks of all matter. You also learned that atoms can be linked together with chemical bonds, to form molecules that have their own unique properties. In this unit, you will take a closer look at a special group of molecules that form the backbone of living structures: the biological macromolecules. Biological macromolecules are special molecules that contain carbon atoms covalently bonded with hydrogen atoms. Atoms are the building blocks of all matter. Biological macromolecules are formed when atoms of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, and other elements bond with each other in unique and varied ways. Biological macromolecules are the raw materials used to build living organisms. There are four classes of biological macromolecules that we will study in this course: carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. These macromolecules are probably already familiar to you, because they make up the nutrients you ingest every time you eat. In this way, you provide your cells with the building materials and energy necessary to sustain life. In the next unit, we will use these fundamental building blocks to form the cell, the first level of organization that shows all the characteristics of life.   Unit Introduction: The Cell The cell is the first level of organization that exhibits all the properties of life. Made up of biological macromolecules, the cell’s unique structure enables it to carry out the functions of life. In the "Biological Macromolecules" unit, you explored matter and learned how atoms can be combined to form molecules that, through their own unique structures, are able to carry out specific functions. You learned that proteins, such as enzymes, are able to function like little molecular machines. However, enzymes and other biological macromolecules made of matter do not possess the properties of life. In fact, it is only after we combine these molecular building blocks to form a cell that we finally see the emergent property of life. Take a moment to review examples of each level of organization forming these building blocks using the activity below. Levels of Organization Comprising the Cell By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. One of the hallmarks of living systems is the ability to maintain homeostasis, or a relatively constant internal state. The cell is the first level of complexity able to maintain homeostasis, and it is the unique structure of the cell that enables this critical function. In this unit, you will learn about the cell and all the parts that make it functional. You will also focus on the cell membrane, which is the structure that surrounds the cell and separates its internal environment from the external environment. This separation enables the cell to maintain homeostasis and exhibit the emergent property of life.   Introduction to Organ Systems In the Genetics unit, you learned about the mechanisms of inheritance, focusing mostly on the organism and population levels in the hierarchy of life. In the Molecular Genetics unit, you learned about the molecular basis of traits that characterize the organisms and how genetic information is organized and used by living organisms at the molecular level. Human organs, composed of two or more kinds of tissues, work together in systems to accomplish major life functions. In this unit on Human Organ Systems, you will learn how the human body is able to maintain health and execute the functions of life through the use of diverse organs. You will recall that organs and organ systems are important levels in the hierarchy of biological organization. In multicellular organisms, cells combine to form tissues, like muscle tissue or nervous tissue. Organs are composed of two or more kinds of tissues, and organs work together in systems to accomplish major life functions. For example, the human digestive system functions through interactions of organs that include the esophagus, stomach, and small and large intestines to process food that a person eats. We can only begin to try to appreciate the complex structures and functions of a human body in this introductory course, but in this unit we will introduce the different human organ systems and then proceed to study five of them in slightly greater depth. You will also have opportunities to learn more about these systems in the laboratory portion of the course. 