8. [u'water', u'molecules', u'molecule']
   Introduction to Biological Chemistry Upon completing this module, students will be able to: List atoms (elements) found in biological systems that are most important to life, including the most common atoms and trace elements. Identify the more electronegative atom when comparing two atoms. Define a hydrogen bond and draw possible hydrogen bonds between any two appropriate molecules. Recognize and describe a covalent bond and inter-molecular forces (an ionic, a hydrogen bond, and van der Waals interactions) both structurally and energetically. Describe the properties of water that are critical for the support of living systems. Describe the hydrophobic effect and its significance in biological systems. Identify different functional groups and characterize each by category (i.e. polar/nonpolar, charged/uncharged). Distinguish between a strong electrolyte and a weak electrolyte. Determine the charge on functional groups at a given a pH level. Define a buffer and its utility to the biological system. Biological systems use only a small subset of the elements (approximately 10 %) found in the periodic table. The chemical reactions that take place in cells represent only a small subset of all possible reactions. Before we begin an in-depth study of other aspects of molecular and cellular biology, one needs to understand the restrictions the cellular environment places on the possible chemical reactions and the resulting structures. By learning about the characteristics of the subset atoms, and a limited set of functional groups found in biological molecules, you will be able to identify, and predict many of the reactions that can take place, understand and predict the physical properties of the molecules made by these reactions, and develop an understanding of why a process occurs as it does in a cell. Biological systems use a subset of chemistry Roll over each axis for details on the constraints biological systems make on that axis. The blue cube represents the chemical universe as defined by temperature (in Kelvin) on one axis, pH on another, and the elements on the third. The small orange interior cube represents the part of chemistry that occurs in cells. 310K is average human body temperature (37˚C or 98.6˚F). We start with an understanding that the cellular environment is essentially aqueous (water) based, and thus, we will begin with a discussion of the chemistry of water as it relates to bonding, pH and temperature control. The first two concepts (bonding and pH) dictate why molecules are soluble in the cell, in what part of the cell they are soluble, what charge molecules will carry and how that charge is controlled by pH. In the next few pages, we discuss each of the 10 learning objectives described in the objective link (check mark icon at the top and bottom of each page). Each subsequent page will list the specific objectives relevant to that page. Many of the simulations and demonstrations, used in this module, are referenced in the Glossary Module.   Atoms After examing atoms and their properties, students will be able to: List the six major atoms found in the composition of biological systems and describe the properties that make them essential for life. List at least 4 of the major trace elements found in cells and the ionic state in which they exist naturally. Identify the electronegative atoms found in biological systems. Explain the significance of having electronegative atoms in a molecule. Recognize and describe a covalent and an ionic bond structurally. Atoms of Life The key biologically relevant elements are hydrogen (H), carbon (C), nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), phosphorous (P), and sulfur (S). These elements represent over 95% of the mass of a cell. Carbon is a major component of nearly all biological molecules. Some elements are found in relatively small amounts and are called “trace elements.” The examples include sodium (Na), potassium (K), chlorine (Cl), manganese (Mn), Zinc (Zn). Throughout the course you will see how atoms of these elements are very important to the functioning of a cell. Living organisms get the required elements from outside and constantly rearrange these elements to build their own molecules. Thus, understanding behavior and structure of elements is important for understanding life. Elements are characterized by their atomic structure. While the subatomic structure of the atom is a major topic of interest in chemistry, physics and biophysics, the basic structure described below provides sufficient information for the construction of molecules in the context of this course. Atoms are made up of subatomic particles: protons, neutrons, and electrons. Protons and neutrons are at the center of the atom and have a mass of 1 atomic mass unit (a.m.u) each. Each proton has a positive charge (+1), while neutrons are neutral (they carry no charge). Each electron has a negative charge (-1) and zero mass. Two atoms that differ by the number of neutrons are called isotopes of the same element (e.g. radioactive isotope of iodine is used for cancer treatment). These elements represent over 95% of the mass of a cell. Carbon is a major component of nearly all biological molecules. Elements are characterized by their atomic structure. While the subatomic structure of the atom is a major topic of interest in chemistry, physics and biophysics, the basic structure described below provides sufficient information for the construction of molecules in the context of this course. Atomic mass, the sum of the number of protons and neutrons in the atomic structure, is a particularly useful measure of each element. By summing the atomic mass of all the atoms in a molecule, one can estimate the molecular mass of the molecule, which is then expressed in atomic mass units or Daltons. The masses of the six atoms of the elements listed above are given in the following Atomic Properties TABLE. The masses can be found in the upper right hand corner of the box for each element in the periodic table. Atomic Properties of the Major Biological Atoms Atom Mass H 1 C 12 N 14 O 16 P 31 S 32 Atoms Form Molecules One characteristic of the atoms of the major elements is that they are able to form molecules through formation of covalent bonds with other atoms. Covalent bonds Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.) The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom. Each atom in a molecule will complete its outer shell of electrons, which is 2 for hydrogen, and 8 for second row elements (e.g. C, N and O). The valence shells for each of the biologically relevant elements are highlighted in the periodic table below. The relationship between the number of unpaired electrons in the valence shell and the number of possible covalent bonds an element can form is given in the Atomic Properties TABLE above. Valence shells highlighted Only the valence shells are shown. The six shaded elements have unpaired electrons and readily form covalent bonds. Molecules are made up of atoms covalently bound to each other. For example, a molecule of methane is a carbon atom covalently bonded to four hydrogen atoms; and water is composed of an oxygen atom covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms. Molecules can also be complex containing many atoms covalently bonded to each other, for example, cholesterol. Note that cholesterol also contains bonds that involve the sharing of more than one valence electron between two atoms creating a double bond indicated by C=C. In this case, each carbon still only participates in making four bonds. This will be discussed later in the section on bonding. Representations of Molecular Structures Different representations of methane, ammonia, and albuterol are shown in the table below. Formula gives the chemical formula, Molecular indicates how the atoms are bonded together, 2D-Structural provides some information about the three dimensional structure using a two-dimensional drawing. The solid wedges indicate the atoms are above the plane of the page and the dashed wedges indicate that the atoms are below the page. 3D-Structural images are seen in the Jmol images at the right of each row. You can manipulate the 3D-structures by placing the cursor in the window and moving the mouse. You should understand the relationship between the 2D-structural representation and the 3D-structural representation. You should also take note of the standard color coding in 3D representations, usually carbon is gray, hydrogen white, oxygen red, nitrogen blue, and sulfur yellow. Electronegativity Another property of the atoms is electronegativity. Electronegativity The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Electronegativity increases as one moves from left to right, across the periodic chart. Because the electronegative atoms have the potential to attract electrons, i.e., the electrons spend more time on the electronegative atom, a molecule containing an electronegative atom will have partial negative charge associated with that atom (as indicated by δ-). The the bonding partner in the covalent bond becomes partially positively charged (as indicated by δ+ ). Electronegativity of the elements. The arrow shows the tendency of atoms of the various elements to lose, keep, or gain an electron. As you can see in the table, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur are electronegative atoms and represent the major electronegative atoms in biological molecules. Phosphorous, an important component in nucleic acids (e.g. DNA) is also electronegative. Water is a good example of how the very electronegative atom of oxygen influences the electrons shared with hydrogen. Oxygen has six valence electrons; two sets of paired electrons and two sets of single bonding electrons. The shared electron pair of each oxygen-hydrogen covalent bond, illustrated below, spends more time associated with the oxygen atom than the hydrogen atom. This results in the oxygen being partially negative, and the hydrogen partially positive, as indicated in the figure below by δ- and δ+. These are then described as a polar covalent bonds. The presence of polar covalent bonds in water and in other molecules containing electronegative atoms puts these molecules in a family of molecules referred to as being polar. We will return to polar bonds in water and their consequences in the "Importance of Water" section. Oxygen is not the only electronegative element that forms polar bonds, as long as the electronegativities of the two atoms differ, the bond will have some degree of polar character. For example, the P-O bond in DNA is polar, with the phosphorous having a partial positive charge since it is less electronegative than oxygen. The polar nature of water. Because oxygen is strongly electronegative, it draws the electrons, e-, it shares with the hydrogen atoms, to itself creating a charge imbalance as indicated by the bold arrow. The oxygen is slightly negative and the hydrogen is slightly positive. This imparts a polar characteristic to the oxygen-hydrogen bond. The Ionic State Ionic Bond An ion is an atom or a molecule that carries a charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. Ionic bonds are interactions between oppositely charged ions. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. There are trace amounts of many other elements in cells most of which exist as ions. These include sodium (Na+), chlorine (Cl-), fluorine (F-), iron (Fe++), magnesium (Mg++), cobalt (Co++), and manganese (Mn++). Throughout the course you will see how atoms of these elements are very important to the functioning of a cell. As you can see in the periodic table these atoms are found on the extreme right or the extreme left of the periodic table. For example, chlorine is on the right of the periodic table and is extremely electronegative and, thus, wants to acquire an electron, whereas, sodium on the extreme left of the periodic table wants to give up its unpaired electron. By losing an electron, sodium becomes a positively charged cation and by gaining an electron, chlorine becomes a negatively charged anion. These charged atoms are called ions and form the basis for charge repulsion and attraction in the non-covalent ionic bond. The affinity of Na+ for Cl- is a non-covalent, ionic bond (the attraction of opposite charges). The key biologically relevant elements are hydrogen (H), carbon (C), nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), phosphorous (P), and sulfur (S). These elements represent over 95% of the mass of a cell. Carbon is a major component of nearly all biological molecules. Some elements are found in relatively small amounts and are called “trace elements.” The examples include sodium (Na), potassium (K), chlorine (Cl), manganese (Mn), Zinc (Zn). Throughout the course you will see how atoms of these elements are very important to the functioning of a cell. Living organisms get the required elements from outside and constantly rearrange these elements to build their own molecules. Thus, understanding behavior and structure of elements is important for understanding life. Elements are characterized by their atomic structure. While the subatomic structure of the atom is a major topic of interest in chemistry, physics and biophysics, the basic structure described below provides sufficient information for the construction of molecules in the context of this course. Atoms are made up of subatomic particles: protons, neutrons, and electrons. Protons and neutrons are at the center of the atom and have a mass of 1 atomic mass unit (a.m.u) each. Each proton has a positive charge (+1), while neutrons are neutral (they carry no charge). Each electron has a negative charge (-1) and zero mass. Two atoms that differ by the number of neutrons are called isotopes of the same element (e.g. radioactive isotope of iodine is used for cancer treatment). These elements represent over 95% of the mass of a cell. Carbon is a major component of nearly all biological molecules. Elements are characterized by their atomic structure. While the subatomic structure of the atom is a major topic of interest in chemistry, physics and biophysics, the basic structure described below provides sufficient information for the construction of molecules in the context of this course. Atomic mass, the sum of the number of protons and neutrons in the atomic structure, is a particularly useful measure of each element. By summing the atomic mass of all the atoms in a molecule, one can estimate the molecular mass of the molecule, which is then expressed in atomic mass units or Daltons. The masses of the six atoms of the elements listed above are given in the following Atomic Properties TABLE. The masses can be found in the upper right hand corner of the box for each element in the periodic table. Atomic Properties of the Major Biological Atoms Atom Mass H 1 C 12 N 14 O 16 P 31 S 32 Atoms Form Molecules One characteristic of the atoms of the major elements is that they are able to form molecules through formation of covalent bonds with other atoms. Covalent bonds Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.) The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom. Each atom in a molecule will complete its outer shell of electrons, which is 2 for hydrogen, and 8 for second row elements (e.g. C, N and O). The valence shells for each of the biologically relevant elements are highlighted in the periodic table below. The relationship between the number of unpaired electrons in the valence shell and the number of possible covalent bonds an element can form is given in the Atomic Properties TABLE above. Valence shells highlighted Only the valence shells are shown. The six shaded elements have unpaired electrons and readily form covalent bonds. Molecules are made up of atoms covalently bound to each other. For example, a molecule of methane is a carbon atom covalently bonded to four hydrogen atoms; and water is composed of an oxygen atom covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms. Molecules can also be complex containing many atoms covalently bonded to each other, for example, cholesterol. Note that cholesterol also contains bonds that involve the sharing of more than one valence electron between two atoms creating a double bond indicated by C=C. In this case, each carbon still only participates in making four bonds. This will be discussed later in the section on bonding. Representations of Molecular Structures Different representations of methane, ammonia, and albuterol are shown in the table below. Formula gives the chemical formula, Molecular indicates how the atoms are bonded together, 2D-Structural provides some information about the three dimensional structure using a two-dimensional drawing. The solid wedges indicate the atoms are above the plane of the page and the dashed wedges indicate that the atoms are below the page. 3D-Structural images are seen in the Jmol images at the right of each row. You can manipulate the 3D-structures by placing the cursor in the window and moving the mouse. You should understand the relationship between the 2D-structural representation and the 3D-structural representation. You should also take note of the standard color coding in 3D representations, usually carbon is gray, hydrogen white, oxygen red, nitrogen blue, and sulfur yellow. One characteristic of the atoms of the major elements is that they are able to form molecules through formation of covalent bonds with other atoms. Covalent bonds Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.) The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom. Each atom in a molecule will complete its outer shell of electrons, which is 2 for hydrogen, and 8 for second row elements (e.g. C, N and O). The valence shells for each of the biologically relevant elements are highlighted in the periodic table below. The relationship between the number of unpaired electrons in the valence shell and the number of possible covalent bonds an element can form is given in the Atomic Properties TABLE above. Another property of the atoms is electronegativity. Electronegativity The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Electronegativity increases as one moves from left to right, across the periodic chart. Because the electronegative atoms have the potential to attract electrons, i.e., the electrons spend more time on the electronegative atom, a molecule containing an electronegative atom will have partial negative charge associated with that atom (as indicated by δ-). The the bonding partner in the covalent bond becomes partially positively charged (as indicated by δ+ ). Electronegativity of the elements. The arrow shows the tendency of atoms of the various elements to lose, keep, or gain an electron. As you can see in the table, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur are electronegative atoms and represent the major electronegative atoms in biological molecules. Phosphorous, an important component in nucleic acids (e.g. DNA) is also electronegative. Water is a good example of how the very electronegative atom of oxygen influences the electrons shared with hydrogen. Oxygen has six valence electrons; two sets of paired electrons and two sets of single bonding electrons. The shared electron pair of each oxygen-hydrogen covalent bond, illustrated below, spends more time associated with the oxygen atom than the hydrogen atom. This results in the oxygen being partially negative, and the hydrogen partially positive, as indicated in the figure below by δ- and δ+. These are then described as a polar covalent bonds. The presence of polar covalent bonds in water and in other molecules containing electronegative atoms puts these molecules in a family of molecules referred to as being polar. We will return to polar bonds in water and their consequences in the "Importance of Water" section. Oxygen is not the only electronegative element that forms polar bonds, as long as the electronegativities of the two atoms differ, the bond will have some degree of polar character. For example, the P-O bond in DNA is polar, with the phosphorous having a partial positive charge since it is less electronegative than oxygen. The polar nature of water. Because oxygen is strongly electronegative, it draws the electrons, e-, it shares with the hydrogen atoms, to itself creating a charge imbalance as indicated by the bold arrow. The oxygen is slightly negative and the hydrogen is slightly positive. This imparts a polar characteristic to the oxygen-hydrogen bond. Ionic Bond An ion is an atom or a molecule that carries a charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. Ionic bonds are interactions between oppositely charged ions. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. There are trace amounts of many other elements in cells most of which exist as ions. These include sodium (Na+), chlorine (Cl-), fluorine (F-), iron (Fe++), magnesium (Mg++), cobalt (Co++), and manganese (Mn++). Throughout the course you will see how atoms of these elements are very important to the functioning of a cell. As you can see in the periodic table these atoms are found on the extreme right or the extreme left of the periodic table. For example, chlorine is on the right of the periodic table and is extremely electronegative and, thus, wants to acquire an electron, whereas, sodium on the extreme left of the periodic table wants to give up its unpaired electron. By losing an electron, sodium becomes a positively charged cation and by gaining an electron, chlorine becomes a negatively charged anion. These charged atoms are called ions and form the basis for charge repulsion and attraction in the non-covalent ionic bond. The affinity of Na+ for Cl- is a non-covalent, ionic bond (the attraction of opposite charges).   Bonding Upon investigation of bonding, students should distinguish hydrogen bonds from chemical bonds and be able to: Define, and draw the structure of, a hydrogen bond between any two appropriate molecules. Recognize and describe a covalent, an ionic, and a hydrogen bond, both structurally and energetically. Describe the difference between covalent and non-covalent bonds. Describe the energy associated with breaking covalent and non-covalent bonds. Describe how water, as a solvent, buffers the structure of ions in solution. Describe an instance of bioselectivity resulting from the structure and bonding of carbon. Describe the results of the hydrophobic effect, which is the interaction of hydrophobic molecules to the exclusion of water. Molecular Bonding Three major types of chemical bonding have been described thus far: covalent bonding, and two forms of non-covalent bonding, ionic and hydrogen. These bonds are all important in the functioning of a cell. Covalent Bonds Covalent bonds are the strongest. One atom fully shares one, two or three electrons with another atom., forming a single, double, or triple bond, respectively. The bonds can be between the same element (e.g., C-C bonds) or between different elements (e.g., C-O, C-N, H-O). The nature of the covalent bond is determined by the number of electrons shared and the nature of the two elements attached. Single bonds: Two atoms attached by a single covalent bond have free rotation about the bond. Double bonds: Two carbons attached by a double covalent bond can only undergo 180 degree rotations and the atoms bound to these carbons are constrained to lie in the same plane as the carbon atom.. Rotation about the carbon-carbon bond has structural implications for molecules in which they are found. For example, the type of bond can influence the fluidity of biological membranes and restrict the folding of proteins. Triple bonds. Although carbon can form triple bonds, such as in the compound acetylene (HCCH), triple bonds are not found in biological systems. Aromatic Compounds: Involve the sharing of electrons between atoms that form a ring. The shared electrons form a partial (1/2) double bond between each atom in the ring structure. Aromatic compounds have unique geometrical properties and absorb ultraviolet light . Formation of a covalent bond A covalent bond is formed between two hydrogen atoms. Covalent bonds involving electronegative atoms often result in polar molecules. As discussed earlier, the bonds between the hydrogen and oxygen atoms of water are polar, due to the fact that oxygen is electron withdrawing and hydrogen is willing to give up its lone electron. The double bond between carbon and oxygen atoms in a carbonyl group is polar, for the same reason that the oxygen attracts the electrons to itself. Geometry The overall shape of molecules depends on the geometry of the bonds that are formed between atoms. The shape of a molecule can have a large effect on its biological activity, often small changes in the shape of a molecule will make it biologically inactive. We saw with water that the orientation of atoms around the oxygen was tetrahydral with the angle between the two hydrogen atoms close what would be expected for a tetrahydral shape. Both carbon and nitrogen also form tetrahydral shapes. In the case of methane the four hydrogen atoms are at the corners of a tetrahydron. In ammonia, the three attached hydrogens form the base of a tetrahydron. In the ammonium ion, the addition of a fourth hydrogen, to form NH4+, places the fourth hydrogen at the last unoccupied corner of the tetrahydron. Carbon and nitrogen can also form planer geometries, where all of the atoms that are bound to the carbon (or nitrogen) are in the same plane as the carbon or nitrogen. In the case of carbon, a planer geometry is usually observed if the carbon is involved in a double bond, while the tetrahydral geometry is found if the carbon is forming single bonds. Compare the structure of methanol to formaldhyde in the Jmol below. In methanol, carbon forms four single bonds while in formaldehyde there is a double bond between the carbon and the oxygen. The carbon atom in methanol shows tetrahdyral geometry, while the carbon atom in formaldehdye is planer; the two hydrogens and oxygen lie in the same plane as the carbon.. Instructions: Compare the geometries of carbon atom in methanol and formaldhyde and then answer the questions below. Methanol Formaldhyde Chirality An important aspect of carbon bonding is the fact that carbon can covalently bond to four groups and that the bonding geometry of the carbon atom is tetrahedral. Therefore, if the four groups attached to the carbon are different, then two unique arrangements of the groups around the carbon atom are possible and this carbon is said to be an asymmetric center or a chiral center. The two arrangements of groups about the carbon are mirror images of each other and these two structures are referred to as enantiomers. It is impossible to superimpose these two mirror images, consequently they are distinct molecules. Because the enantiomers have identical functional groups attached to the chiral center they have identical physical and chemical properties - except for the direction they rotate plane polarized light. Experimentally, the enantiomers are distinguished by the direction of rotation of plane polarized light. The enantiomer that rotates light to the right is designated as D (dextro) form of the compound. The other enantiomer will rotate light in the opposite direction, and is designated as the L (levulo) form of the compound. The example shown below is the three carbon carbohydrate, glyceraldehyde. This compound contains a chiral center at the middle, or second carbon, because that carbon has four different groups attached to it. The configuration of atoms in the left-hand structure causes polarized light to be rotated to the right and is therefore the D form. Its mirror image shown on the right, rotates polarized light in the opposite direction, and is therefore the L form. Note that in both compounds the H and OH groups project out of the page towards you, but in the D form the -OH group is to the right of carbon two while in the L-form it points to the left. The two arrangements of atoms around a chiral center are mirror images much as the right hand is a mirror image of the left. The dark black arrows indicate that atoms are above the page and the gray arrows indicate the atoms are below the page. While enantiomers usually undergo chemical reactions in an identical fashion, biological systems are capable of discriminating between these structurally different molecules because biological systems themselves contain chiral centers, such as in amino acids. The ability to discriminate between the enantiomers is an example of bioselectivity. The chemical world has been narrowed by the selective use of specific enantiomers (in this case only D-glyceraldehyde) by biological systems. chirality When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. Chirality of Chloro-Fluoro Methane Instructions: Chloro-fluoro methane and its mirror image are shown below. Please answer the question using these two structures. Chirality of Chloro-Fluoro-Bromo Methane Instructions: One additional hydrogen has been replaced by bromine (colored purple). One form of the molecule is shown on the left and it's mirror image is on the right. Use these two structures to answer the question on the right. Chirality of Glyceraldehyde Instructions: Try to determine the chirality of glyceraldehyde, one ot the simplest organic molecules found in biology. A static image of L-glyceraldehyde is shown on the left. Is the right 3D structure the D form or the L form of glyceraldehyde? L-Glyceraldehyde Glyceraldehyde Chirality of Threonine Instructions: Try to identify the chiral center(s) of a more complicated molecule - the amino acid threonine, one of the building blocks of proteins. L-Threonine Non-Covalent Bonds Ionic Bonds Ionic bonds form between oppositely charged atoms. No electron sharing or transfer occurs. The atoms are attracted to each other due to their opposite charges. For example, the positive Na ion, and negatively charged Cl ion, are attracted to each other and form table salt. In an aqueous solution, these ions are completely dissociated and are defined as strong electrolytes. In water molecules surround the ions to form polar interactions to satisfy the charges on the ions. Thus the ions become encapsulated by water spheres, which are called spheres of hydration. The biological world is very ionic and the spheres of hydration are important in a cell because they maintain the separation of the many ions of the cell from each other. The sphere of hydration must be broken in order for binding to take place with a specific binding partner. Previously, water was described as having a high dielectric constant. This property that is a measure of the polarity of the covalent bond within the molecule accounts for the separation of ions by polar molecules such as water. The force of attraction between two oppositely charged ions is inversely proportional to the dielectric constant. Thus water with a high dielectric constant decreases the attraction between opposite charges. This is physically explained by the ability of polar solvents to form ordered hydration layers around ions. Hydrogen Bonding Hydrogen bonding was covered in Water -- Hydrogen Bonding (go there now.) Remember that hydrogen bonding occurs between partially negatively charged electronegative atoms, and partially positively charged hydrogen atoms that are attached to electronegative atoms such as oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur. Hydrogen bonding is a critical bonding in the cell. It is the principal bonding that holds the tertiary structure of proteins, carbohydrates and nucleic acids together and the overall stability of these molecules is due in part to the cumulative effect of the large number of hydrogen bonds found in the functional structures. Hydrogen bonds are found in and between a variety of molecules. For example, the enormous number of hydrogen bonds between strands of cellulose provide the strength and structure of the plant cell wall. Hydrophilic Interaction The nature of polar molecules is that they contain electronegative atoms, consequently they are capable of hydrogen bonding with aqueous or polar solvents. Because polar molecules are generally water soluble, they are referred to as being hydrophilic, or water-loving. The one-carbon alcohol, methanol, is an example of a polar molecule. Hydrophobic Interaction The final type of interaction occurs between neutral, hydrophobic , or water-fearing, molecules. These molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. For example, shaking a bottle of oil and vinegar (acetic acid in water), such as in a salad dressing, results in the oil being dispersed as tiny droplets in the vinegar. As the mixture settles, the oil collects in larger and larger drops until it only exists as a layer, or phase, above the vinegar. A similar effect occurs in biological systems. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Similarly, biological membranes are stabilized by the exclusion of water between layers of lipids as we will see later. The hydrophobic effect does not involve direct bonding between the non-polar molecules, it is an entropy driven process. You may recall that processes that increase the disorder of a system are more favorable. When a hydrophobic molecule is truly dissolved in water, the water forms a highly ordered ice-like shell around the compound. When the hydrophobic molecules contact each during separation of the aqueous and non-polar phases, the ordered water is released and become highly disordered. The increase in disorder of the released water molecules is responsible for the spontaneous assembly of many biological systems, such as proteins and membranes. Mixed Non-polar/polar molecules: Of course, there are instances where even molecules with electronegative atoms will not be water soluble. Computer algorithms are currently used to predict water solubility based on structure. For our purposes, we will balance the ratio of polar and non-polar elements in a structure to estimate the chemical nature of any compound we are going to study. Amphipathic molecules are molecules that have a distinct non-polar, or hydrophobic region, and a distinct polar region. These molecules do not form true solution is water. Rather, the non-polar parts are forced together into a non-polar aggregate, leaving the polar part of the molecule to interact with the aqueous phase. Detergents and long-chain carboxylic acids are examples of amphipathic molecules. van der Waals Interactions An important force in biochemistry is due to van der Waals interactions. This interaction occurs between any two surfaces that are in contact. The force is actually an electrostatic one that occurs as a result of a momentary fluctuation in the charge on one surface.. This charge causes the other surface to momentarily assume the opposite charge, leading to a net attractive force. If one of the surfaces has a permanent dipole, due to the presence of electronegative or electropositive atoms, then the attraction is stronger. The strength of van der Waals forces depend on the contact surface area; the larger the area the larger the interaction. At the molecular level, van der Waals interactions can contribute 10s of kJ/mol of energy. At the macroscopic level van der Waals forces can become quite large. For example, the common gecko generates sufficient van der Waals forces due to the large surface area of its foot pads to walk on the ceiling! Origin of van der Waals effects. Two neutral surfaces (left) have no net attraction. One surface becomes charged for a short period of time. The charge on one surface generates a charge of the opposite sign on the other surface, leading to an attractive force between the two surfaces. A short time later the charges reverse in sign, again generating an attractive force between the two surfaces. Energy Associated with the Bonds Each of the bond types represents a measurable amount of energy. To break a bond, the equivalent amount of energy must be expended. In metabolism, bonds are broken in molecules, such as glucose, to "release" the energy. The cell utilizes this energy to drive other energy consuming reactions. The covalent bond has the most energy associated with it, on average approximately 100 kilocalories/mole (kcal/mol). The non-covalent bonds, ionic and hydrogen, and hydrophobic interactions, have approximately 5 kcals/mol associated with each of them. It should be noted here that throughout the presentation of this course approximations will be used for certain values so that estimations can be made as we move to more complex systems. It is to be acknowledged that very precise values for each of the measurements are not available. Thus the non-covalent bonds that have been introduced have approximately 20 times less energy associated with them and, thus, are more easily broken individually. However, hydrogen bonds generally form extensive networks, and the total energy associated with the network is the sum of the individual interactions. As anyone who has done a "belly buster" knows, breaking a large surface area of water is extremely difficult (and painful!). Energy associated with the different bonds Bond Energy, kcal/mol Covalent 100 Ionic 5 Hydrogen 5 Hydrophobic interactions 5 van der Waals 5 (depends on surface area) When NaCl dissolves in water, each atom becomes surrounded by at least 20 water molecules. As NaCl there is 5 kcal/mol of energy associated with the ionic attraction of the cation and anion, but when a Na ion is surrounded by 20 water molecules, there is 100 kcal/mol of energy associated with just the Na ion. Thus, NaCl in an aqueous solution is energetically more favored than NaCl as the ionically bonded molecule due to the resulting hydrated state. You will explore what happens to molecules that only partially dissociate, or weak electrolytes, in water in the next module. Practice Answering questions like the one below is good practice for answering the kinds of questions that may appear on exams. Your answers may also shape discussions in class. Graded Quiz You can take this quiz only once. Three major types of chemical bonding have been described thus far: covalent bonding, and two forms of non-covalent bonding, ionic and hydrogen. These bonds are all important in the functioning of a cell. Covalent bonds are the strongest. One atom fully shares one, two or three electrons with another atom., forming a single, double, or triple bond, respectively. The bonds can be between the same element (e.g., C-C bonds) or between different elements (e.g., C-O, C-N, H-O). The nature of the covalent bond is determined by the number of electrons shared and the nature of the two elements attached. Single bonds: Two atoms attached by a single covalent bond have free rotation about the bond. Double bonds: Two carbons attached by a double covalent bond can only undergo 180 degree rotations and the atoms bound to these carbons are constrained to lie in the same plane as the carbon atom.. Rotation about the carbon-carbon bond has structural implications for molecules in which they are found. For example, the type of bond can influence the fluidity of biological membranes and restrict the folding of proteins. Triple bonds. Although carbon can form triple bonds, such as in the compound acetylene (HCCH), triple bonds are not found in biological systems. Aromatic Compounds: Involve the sharing of electrons between atoms that form a ring. The shared electrons form a partial (1/2) double bond between each atom in the ring structure. Aromatic compounds have unique geometrical properties and absorb ultraviolet light . Formation of a covalent bond A covalent bond is formed between two hydrogen atoms. Covalent bonds involving electronegative atoms often result in polar molecules. As discussed earlier, the bonds between the hydrogen and oxygen atoms of water are polar, due to the fact that oxygen is electron withdrawing and hydrogen is willing to give up its lone electron. The double bond between carbon and oxygen atoms in a carbonyl group is polar, for the same reason that the oxygen attracts the electrons to itself. The overall shape of molecules depends on the geometry of the bonds that are formed between atoms. The shape of a molecule can have a large effect on its biological activity, often small changes in the shape of a molecule will make it biologically inactive. We saw with water that the orientation of atoms around the oxygen was tetrahydral with the angle between the two hydrogen atoms close what would be expected for a tetrahydral shape. Both carbon and nitrogen also form tetrahydral shapes. In the case of methane the four hydrogen atoms are at the corners of a tetrahydron. In ammonia, the three attached hydrogens form the base of a tetrahydron. In the ammonium ion, the addition of a fourth hydrogen, to form NH4+, places the fourth hydrogen at the last unoccupied corner of the tetrahydron. Carbon and nitrogen can also form planer geometries, where all of the atoms that are bound to the carbon (or nitrogen) are in the same plane as the carbon or nitrogen. In the case of carbon, a planer geometry is usually observed if the carbon is involved in a double bond, while the tetrahydral geometry is found if the carbon is forming single bonds. Compare the structure of methanol to formaldhyde in the Jmol below. In methanol, carbon forms four single bonds while in formaldehyde there is a double bond between the carbon and the oxygen. The carbon atom in methanol shows tetrahdyral geometry, while the carbon atom in formaldehdye is planer; the two hydrogens and oxygen lie in the same plane as the carbon.. Instructions: Compare the geometries of carbon atom in methanol and formaldhyde and then answer the questions below. Methanol Formaldhyde An important aspect of carbon bonding is the fact that carbon can covalently bond to four groups and that the bonding geometry of the carbon atom is tetrahedral. Therefore, if the four groups attached to the carbon are different, then two unique arrangements of the groups around the carbon atom are possible and this carbon is said to be an asymmetric center or a chiral center. The two arrangements of groups about the carbon are mirror images of each other and these two structures are referred to as enantiomers. It is impossible to superimpose these two mirror images, consequently they are distinct molecules. Because the enantiomers have identical functional groups attached to the chiral center they have identical physical and chemical properties - except for the direction they rotate plane polarized light. Experimentally, the enantiomers are distinguished by the direction of rotation of plane polarized light. The enantiomer that rotates light to the right is designated as D (dextro) form of the compound. The other enantiomer will rotate light in the opposite direction, and is designated as the L (levulo) form of the compound. The example shown below is the three carbon carbohydrate, glyceraldehyde. This compound contains a chiral center at the middle, or second carbon, because that carbon has four different groups attached to it. The configuration of atoms in the left-hand structure causes polarized light to be rotated to the right and is therefore the D form. Its mirror image shown on the right, rotates polarized light in the opposite direction, and is therefore the L form. Note that in both compounds the H and OH groups project out of the page towards you, but in the D form the -OH group is to the right of carbon two while in the L-form it points to the left. The two arrangements of atoms around a chiral center are mirror images much as the right hand is a mirror image of the left. The dark black arrows indicate that atoms are above the page and the gray arrows indicate the atoms are below the page. While enantiomers usually undergo chemical reactions in an identical fashion, biological systems are capable of discriminating between these structurally different molecules because biological systems themselves contain chiral centers, such as in amino acids. The ability to discriminate between the enantiomers is an example of bioselectivity. The chemical world has been narrowed by the selective use of specific enantiomers (in this case only D-glyceraldehyde) by biological systems. chirality When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. Chirality of Chloro-Fluoro Methane Instructions: Chloro-fluoro methane and its mirror image are shown below. Please answer the question using these two structures. Chirality of Chloro-Fluoro-Bromo Methane Instructions: One additional hydrogen has been replaced by bromine (colored purple). One form of the molecule is shown on the left and it's mirror image is on the right. Use these two structures to answer the question on the right. Chirality of Glyceraldehyde Instructions: Try to determine the chirality of glyceraldehyde, one ot the simplest organic molecules found in biology. A static image of L-glyceraldehyde is shown on the left. Is the right 3D structure the D form or the L form of glyceraldehyde? L-Glyceraldehyde Glyceraldehyde Chirality of Threonine Instructions: Try to identify the chiral center(s) of a more complicated molecule - the amino acid threonine, one of the building blocks of proteins. L-Threonine Ionic bonds form between oppositely charged atoms. No electron sharing or transfer occurs. The atoms are attracted to each other due to their opposite charges. For example, the positive Na ion, and negatively charged Cl ion, are attracted to each other and form table salt. In an aqueous solution, these ions are completely dissociated and are defined as strong electrolytes. In water molecules surround the ions to form polar interactions to satisfy the charges on the ions. Thus the ions become encapsulated by water spheres, which are called spheres of hydration. The biological world is very ionic and the spheres of hydration are important in a cell because they maintain the separation of the many ions of the cell from each other. The sphere of hydration must be broken in order for binding to take place with a specific binding partner. Previously, water was described as having a high dielectric constant. This property that is a measure of the polarity of the covalent bond within the molecule accounts for the separation of ions by polar molecules such as water. The force of attraction between two oppositely charged ions is inversely proportional to the dielectric constant. Thus water with a high dielectric constant decreases the attraction between opposite charges. This is physically explained by the ability of polar solvents to form ordered hydration layers around ions. Hydrogen bonding was covered in Water -- Hydrogen Bonding (go there now.) Remember that hydrogen bonding occurs between partially negatively charged electronegative atoms, and partially positively charged hydrogen atoms that are attached to electronegative atoms such as oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur. Hydrogen bonding is a critical bonding in the cell. It is the principal bonding that holds the tertiary structure of proteins, carbohydrates and nucleic acids together and the overall stability of these molecules is due in part to the cumulative effect of the large number of hydrogen bonds found in the functional structures. Hydrogen bonds are found in and between a variety of molecules. For example, the enormous number of hydrogen bonds between strands of cellulose provide the strength and structure of the plant cell wall. The nature of polar molecules is that they contain electronegative atoms, consequently they are capable of hydrogen bonding with aqueous or polar solvents. Because polar molecules are generally water soluble, they are referred to as being hydrophilic, or water-loving. The one-carbon alcohol, methanol, is an example of a polar molecule. The final type of interaction occurs between neutral, hydrophobic , or water-fearing, molecules. These molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. For example, shaking a bottle of oil and vinegar (acetic acid in water), such as in a salad dressing, results in the oil being dispersed as tiny droplets in the vinegar. As the mixture settles, the oil collects in larger and larger drops until it only exists as a layer, or phase, above the vinegar. A similar effect occurs in biological systems. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Similarly, biological membranes are stabilized by the exclusion of water between layers of lipids as we will see later. The hydrophobic effect does not involve direct bonding between the non-polar molecules, it is an entropy driven process. You may recall that processes that increase the disorder of a system are more favorable. When a hydrophobic molecule is truly dissolved in water, the water forms a highly ordered ice-like shell around the compound. When the hydrophobic molecules contact each during separation of the aqueous and non-polar phases, the ordered water is released and become highly disordered. The increase in disorder of the released water molecules is responsible for the spontaneous assembly of many biological systems, such as proteins and membranes. Mixed Non-polar/polar molecules: Of course, there are instances where even molecules with electronegative atoms will not be water soluble. Computer algorithms are currently used to predict water solubility based on structure. For our purposes, we will balance the ratio of polar and non-polar elements in a structure to estimate the chemical nature of any compound we are going to study. Amphipathic molecules are molecules that have a distinct non-polar, or hydrophobic region, and a distinct polar region. These molecules do not form true solution is water. Rather, the non-polar parts are forced together into a non-polar aggregate, leaving the polar part of the molecule to interact with the aqueous phase. Detergents and long-chain carboxylic acids are examples of amphipathic molecules. An important force in biochemistry is due to van der Waals interactions. This interaction occurs between any two surfaces that are in contact. The force is actually an electrostatic one that occurs as a result of a momentary fluctuation in the charge on one surface.. This charge causes the other surface to momentarily assume the opposite charge, leading to a net attractive force. If one of the surfaces has a permanent dipole, due to the presence of electronegative or electropositive atoms, then the attraction is stronger. The strength of van der Waals forces depend on the contact surface area; the larger the area the larger the interaction. At the molecular level, van der Waals interactions can contribute 10s of kJ/mol of energy. At the macroscopic level van der Waals forces can become quite large. For example, the common gecko generates sufficient van der Waals forces due to the large surface area of its foot pads to walk on the ceiling! Origin of van der Waals effects. Two neutral surfaces (left) have no net attraction. One surface becomes charged for a short period of time. The charge on one surface generates a charge of the opposite sign on the other surface, leading to an attractive force between the two surfaces. A short time later the charges reverse in sign, again generating an attractive force between the two surfaces. Each of the bond types represents a measurable amount of energy. To break a bond, the equivalent amount of energy must be expended. In metabolism, bonds are broken in molecules, such as glucose, to "release" the energy. The cell utilizes this energy to drive other energy consuming reactions. The covalent bond has the most energy associated with it, on average approximately 100 kilocalories/mole (kcal/mol). The non-covalent bonds, ionic and hydrogen, and hydrophobic interactions, have approximately 5 kcals/mol associated with each of them. It should be noted here that throughout the presentation of this course approximations will be used for certain values so that estimations can be made as we move to more complex systems. It is to be acknowledged that very precise values for each of the measurements are not available. Thus the non-covalent bonds that have been introduced have approximately 20 times less energy associated with them and, thus, are more easily broken individually. However, hydrogen bonds generally form extensive networks, and the total energy associated with the network is the sum of the individual interactions. As anyone who has done a "belly buster" knows, breaking a large surface area of water is extremely difficult (and painful!). Energy associated with the different bonds Bond Energy, kcal/mol Covalent 100 Ionic 5 Hydrogen 5 Hydrophobic interactions 5 van der Waals 5 (depends on surface area) When NaCl dissolves in water, each atom becomes surrounded by at least 20 water molecules. As NaCl there is 5 kcal/mol of energy associated with the ionic attraction of the cation and anion, but when a Na ion is surrounded by 20 water molecules, there is 100 kcal/mol of energy associated with just the Na ion. Thus, NaCl in an aqueous solution is energetically more favored than NaCl as the ionically bonded molecule due to the resulting hydrated state. You will explore what happens to molecules that only partially dissociate, or weak electrolytes, in water in the next module. Answering questions like the one below is good practice for answering the kinds of questions that may appear on exams. Your answers may also shape discussions in class. You can take this quiz only once.   Bonding Upon investigation of bonding, students should distinguish hydrogen bonds from chemical bonds and be able to: Define, and draw the structure of, a hydrogen bond between any two appropriate molecules. Recognize and describe a covalent, an ionic, and a hydrogen bond, both structurally and energetically. Describe the difference between covalent and non-covalent bonds. Describe the energy associated with breaking covalent and non-covalent bonds. Describe how water, as a solvent, buffers the structure of ions in solution. Describe an instance of bioselectivity resulting from the structure and bonding of carbon. Describe the results of the hydrophobic effect, which is the interaction of hydrophobic molecules to the exclusion of water. Molecular Bonding Three major types of chemical bonding have been described thus far: covalent bonding, and two forms of non-covalent bonding, ionic and hydrogen. These bonds are all important in the functioning of a cell. Covalent Bonds Covalent bonds are the strongest. One atom fully shares one, two or three electrons with another atom., forming a single, double, or triple bond, respectively. The bonds can be between the same element (e.g., C-C bonds) or between different elements (e.g., C-O, C-N, H-O). The nature of the covalent bond is determined by the number of electrons shared and the nature of the two elements attached. Single bonds: Two atoms attached by a single covalent bond have free rotation about the bond. Double bonds: Two carbons attached by a double covalent bond can only undergo 180 degree rotations and the atoms bound to these carbons are constrained to lie in the same plane as the carbon atom.. Rotation about the carbon-carbon bond has structural implications for molecules in which they are found. For example, the type of bond can influence the fluidity of biological membranes and restrict the folding of proteins. Triple bonds. Although carbon can form triple bonds, such as in the compound acetylene (HCCH), triple bonds are not found in biological systems. Aromatic Compounds: Involve the sharing of electrons between atoms that form a ring. The shared electrons form a partial (1/2) double bond between each atom in the ring structure. Aromatic compounds have unique geometrical properties and absorb ultraviolet light . Formation of a covalent bond A covalent bond is formed between two hydrogen atoms. Covalent bonds involving electronegative atoms often result in polar molecules. As discussed earlier, the bonds between the hydrogen and oxygen atoms of water are polar, due to the fact that oxygen is electron withdrawing and hydrogen is willing to give up its lone electron. The double bond between carbon and oxygen atoms in a carbonyl group is polar, for the same reason that the oxygen attracts the electrons to itself. Geometry The overall shape of molecules depends on the geometry of the bonds that are formed between atoms. The shape of a molecule can have a large effect on its biological activity, often small changes in the shape of a molecule will make it biologically inactive. We saw with water that the orientation of atoms around the oxygen was tetrahydral with the angle between the two hydrogen atoms close what would be expected for a tetrahydral shape. Both carbon and nitrogen also form tetrahydral shapes. In the case of methane the four hydrogen atoms are at the corners of a tetrahydron. In ammonia, the three attached hydrogens form the base of a tetrahydron. In the ammonium ion, the addition of a fourth hydrogen, to form NH4+, places the fourth hydrogen at the last unoccupied corner of the tetrahydron. Carbon and nitrogen can also form planer geometries, where all of the atoms that are bound to the carbon (or nitrogen) are in the same plane as the carbon or nitrogen. In the case of carbon, a planer geometry is usually observed if the carbon is involved in a double bond, while the tetrahydral geometry is found if the carbon is forming single bonds. Compare the structure of methanol to formaldhyde in the Jmol below. In methanol, carbon forms four single bonds while in formaldehyde there is a double bond between the carbon and the oxygen. The carbon atom in methanol shows tetrahdyral geometry, while the carbon atom in formaldehdye is planer; the two hydrogens and oxygen lie in the same plane as the carbon.. Instructions: Compare the geometries of carbon atom in methanol and formaldhyde and then answer the questions below. Methanol Formaldhyde Chirality An important aspect of carbon bonding is the fact that carbon can covalently bond to four groups and that the bonding geometry of the carbon atom is tetrahedral. Therefore, if the four groups attached to the carbon are different, then two unique arrangements of the groups around the carbon atom are possible and this carbon is said to be an asymmetric center or a chiral center. The two arrangements of groups about the carbon are mirror images of each other and these two structures are referred to as enantiomers. It is impossible to superimpose these two mirror images, consequently they are distinct molecules. Because the enantiomers have identical functional groups attached to the chiral center they have identical physical and chemical properties - except for the direction they rotate plane polarized light. Experimentally, the enantiomers are distinguished by the direction of rotation of plane polarized light. The enantiomer that rotates light to the right is designated as D (dextro) form of the compound. The other enantiomer will rotate light in the opposite direction, and is designated as the L (levulo) form of the compound. The example shown below is the three carbon carbohydrate, glyceraldehyde. This compound contains a chiral center at the middle, or second carbon, because that carbon has four different groups attached to it. The configuration of atoms in the left-hand structure causes polarized light to be rotated to the right and is therefore the D form. Its mirror image shown on the right, rotates polarized light in the opposite direction, and is therefore the L form. Note that in both compounds the H and OH groups project out of the page towards you, but in the D form the -OH group is to the right of carbon two while in the L-form it points to the left. The two arrangements of atoms around a chiral center are mirror images much as the right hand is a mirror image of the left. The dark black arrows indicate that atoms are above the page and the gray arrows indicate the atoms are below the page. While enantiomers usually undergo chemical reactions in an identical fashion, biological systems are capable of discriminating between these structurally different molecules because biological systems themselves contain chiral centers, such as in amino acids. The ability to discriminate between the enantiomers is an example of bioselectivity. The chemical world has been narrowed by the selective use of specific enantiomers (in this case only D-glyceraldehyde) by biological systems. chirality When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. Chirality of Chloro-Fluoro Methane Instructions: Chloro-fluoro methane and its mirror image are shown below. Please answer the question using these two structures. Chirality of Chloro-Fluoro-Bromo Methane Instructions: One additional hydrogen has been replaced by bromine (colored purple). One form of the molecule is shown on the left and it's mirror image is on the right. Use these two structures to answer the question on the right. Chirality of Glyceraldehyde Instructions: Try to determine the chirality of glyceraldehyde, one ot the simplest organic molecules found in biology. A static image of L-glyceraldehyde is shown on the left. Is the right 3D structure the D form or the L form of glyceraldehyde? L-Glyceraldehyde Glyceraldehyde Chirality of Threonine Instructions: Try to identify the chiral center(s) of a more complicated molecule - the amino acid threonine, one of the building blocks of proteins. L-Threonine Non-Covalent Bonds Ionic Bonds Ionic bonds form between oppositely charged atoms. No electron sharing or transfer occurs. The atoms are attracted to each other due to their opposite charges. For example, the positive Na ion, and negatively charged Cl ion, are attracted to each other and form table salt. In an aqueous solution, these ions are completely dissociated and are defined as strong electrolytes. In water molecules surround the ions to form polar interactions to satisfy the charges on the ions. Thus the ions become encapsulated by water spheres, which are called spheres of hydration. The biological world is very ionic and the spheres of hydration are important in a cell because they maintain the separation of the many ions of the cell from each other. The sphere of hydration must be broken in order for binding to take place with a specific binding partner. Previously, water was described as having a high dielectric constant. This property that is a measure of the polarity of the covalent bond within the molecule accounts for the separation of ions by polar molecules such as water. The force of attraction between two oppositely charged ions is inversely proportional to the dielectric constant. Thus water with a high dielectric constant decreases the attraction between opposite charges. This is physically explained by the ability of polar solvents to form ordered hydration layers around ions. Hydrogen Bonding Hydrogen bonding was covered in Water -- Hydrogen Bonding (go there now.) Remember that hydrogen bonding occurs between partially negatively charged electronegative atoms, and partially positively charged hydrogen atoms that are attached to electronegative atoms such as oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur. Hydrogen bonding is a critical bonding in the cell. It is the principal bonding that holds the tertiary structure of proteins, carbohydrates and nucleic acids together and the overall stability of these molecules is due in part to the cumulative effect of the large number of hydrogen bonds found in the functional structures. Hydrogen bonds are found in and between a variety of molecules. For example, the enormous number of hydrogen bonds between strands of cellulose provide the strength and structure of the plant cell wall. Hydrophilic Interaction The nature of polar molecules is that they contain electronegative atoms, consequently they are capable of hydrogen bonding with aqueous or polar solvents. Because polar molecules are generally water soluble, they are referred to as being hydrophilic, or water-loving. The one-carbon alcohol, methanol, is an example of a polar molecule. Hydrophobic Interaction The final type of interaction occurs between neutral, hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules. These molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. For example, shaking a bottle of oil and vinegar (acetic acid in water), such as in a salad dressing, results in the oil being dispersed as tiny droplets in the vinegar. As the mixture settles, the oil collects in larger and larger drops until it only exists as a layer, or phase, above the vinegar. A similar effect occurs in biological systems. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Similarly, biological membranes are stabilized by the exclusion of water between layers of lipids as we will see later. The hydrophobic effect does not involve direct bonding between the non-polar molecules, it is an entropy driven process. You may recall that processes that increase the disorder of a system are more favorable. When a hydrophobic molecule is truly dissolved in water, the water forms a highly ordered ice-like shell around the compound. When the hydrophobic molecules contact each during separation of the aqueous and non-polar phases, the ordered water is released and become highly disordered. The increase in disorder of the released water molecules is responsible for the spontaneous assembly of many biological systems, such as proteins and membranes. Mixed Non-polar/polar molecules: Of course, there are instances where even molecules with electronegative atoms will not be water soluble. Computer algorithms are currently used to predict water solubility based on structure. For our purposes, we will balance the ratio of polar and non-polar elements in a structure to estimate the chemical nature of any compound we are going to study. Amphipathic molecules are molecules that have a distinct non-polar, or hydrophobic region, and a distinct polar region. These molecules do not form true solution is water. Rather, the non-polar parts are forced together into a non-polar aggregate, leaving the polar part of the molecule to interact with the aqueous phase. Detergents and long-chain carboxylic acids are examples of amphipathic molecules. van der Waals Interactions An important force in biochemistry is due to van der Waals interactions. This interaction occurs between any two surfaces that are in contact. The force is actually an electrostatic one that occurs as a result of a momentary fluctuation in the charge on one surface.. This charge causes the other surface to momentarily assume the opposite charge, leading to a net attractive force. If one of the surfaces has a permanent dipole, due to the presence of electronegative or electropositive atoms, then the attraction is stronger. The strength of van der Waals forces depend on the contact surface area; the larger the area the larger the interaction. At the molecular level, van der Waals interactions can contribute 10s of kJ/mol of energy. At the macroscopic level van der Waals forces can become quite large. For example, the common gecko generates sufficient van der Waals forces due to the large surface area of its foot pads to walk on the ceiling! Origin of van der Waals effects. Two neutral surfaces (left) have no net attraction. One surface becomes charged for a short period of time. The charge on one surface generates a charge of the opposite sign on the other surface, leading to an attractive force between the two surfaces. A short time later the charges reverse in sign, again generating an attractive force between the two surfaces. Energy Associated with the Bonds Each of the bond types represents a measurable amount of energy. To break a bond, the equivalent amount of energy must be expended. In metabolism, bonds are broken in molecules, such as glucose, to "release" the energy. The cell utilizes this energy to drive other energy consuming reactions. The covalent bond has the most energy associated with it, on average approximately 100 kilocalories/mole (kcal/mol). The non-covalent bonds, ionic and hydrogen, and hydrophobic interactions, have approximately 5 kcals/mol associated with each of them. It should be noted here that throughout the presentation of this course approximations will be used for certain values so that estimations can be made as we move to more complex systems. It is to be acknowledged that very precise values for each of the measurements are not available. Thus the non-covalent bonds that have been introduced have approximately 20 times less energy associated with them and, thus, are more easily broken individually. However, hydrogen bonds generally form extensive networks, and the total energy associated with the network is the sum of the individual interactions. As anyone who has done a "belly buster" knows, breaking a large surface area of water is extremely difficult (and painful!). Energy Associated with the Different Bonds Bond Energy, kcal/mol Covalent 100 Ionic 5 Hydrogen 5 Hydrophobic interactions 5 van der Waals 5 (depends on surface area) When NaCl dissolves in water, each atom becomes surrounded by at least 20 water molecules. As NaCl there is 5 kcal/mol of energy associated with the ionic attraction of the cation and anion, but when a Na ion is surrounded by 20 water molecules, there is 100 kcal/mol of energy associated with just the Na ion. Thus, NaCl in an aqueous solution is energetically more favored than NaCl as the ionically bonded molecule due to the resulting hydrated state. You will explore what happens to molecules that only partially dissociate, or weak electrolytes, in water in the next module. Practice Three major types of chemical bonding have been described thus far: covalent bonding, and two forms of non-covalent bonding, ionic and hydrogen. These bonds are all important in the functioning of a cell. Covalent bonds are the strongest. One atom fully shares one, two or three electrons with another atom., forming a single, double, or triple bond, respectively. The bonds can be between the same element (e.g., C-C bonds) or between different elements (e.g., C-O, C-N, H-O). The nature of the covalent bond is determined by the number of electrons shared and the nature of the two elements attached. Single bonds: Two atoms attached by a single covalent bond have free rotation about the bond. Double bonds: Two carbons attached by a double covalent bond can only undergo 180 degree rotations and the atoms bound to these carbons are constrained to lie in the same plane as the carbon atom.. Rotation about the carbon-carbon bond has structural implications for molecules in which they are found. For example, the type of bond can influence the fluidity of biological membranes and restrict the folding of proteins. Triple bonds. Although carbon can form triple bonds, such as in the compound acetylene (HCCH), triple bonds are not found in biological systems. Aromatic Compounds: Involve the sharing of electrons between atoms that form a ring. The shared electrons form a partial (1/2) double bond between each atom in the ring structure. Aromatic compounds have unique geometrical properties and absorb ultraviolet light . Formation of a covalent bond A covalent bond is formed between two hydrogen atoms. Covalent bonds involving electronegative atoms often result in polar molecules. As discussed earlier, the bonds between the hydrogen and oxygen atoms of water are polar, due to the fact that oxygen is electron withdrawing and hydrogen is willing to give up its lone electron. The double bond between carbon and oxygen atoms in a carbonyl group is polar, for the same reason that the oxygen attracts the electrons to itself. The overall shape of molecules depends on the geometry of the bonds that are formed between atoms. The shape of a molecule can have a large effect on its biological activity, often small changes in the shape of a molecule will make it biologically inactive. We saw with water that the orientation of atoms around the oxygen was tetrahydral with the angle between the two hydrogen atoms close what would be expected for a tetrahydral shape. Both carbon and nitrogen also form tetrahydral shapes. In the case of methane the four hydrogen atoms are at the corners of a tetrahydron. In ammonia, the three attached hydrogens form the base of a tetrahydron. In the ammonium ion, the addition of a fourth hydrogen, to form NH4+, places the fourth hydrogen at the last unoccupied corner of the tetrahydron. Carbon and nitrogen can also form planer geometries, where all of the atoms that are bound to the carbon (or nitrogen) are in the same plane as the carbon or nitrogen. In the case of carbon, a planer geometry is usually observed if the carbon is involved in a double bond, while the tetrahydral geometry is found if the carbon is forming single bonds. Compare the structure of methanol to formaldhyde in the Jmol below. In methanol, carbon forms four single bonds while in formaldehyde there is a double bond between the carbon and the oxygen. The carbon atom in methanol shows tetrahdyral geometry, while the carbon atom in formaldehdye is planer; the two hydrogens and oxygen lie in the same plane as the carbon.. Instructions: Compare the geometries of carbon atom in methanol and formaldhyde and then answer the questions below. Methanol Formaldhyde An important aspect of carbon bonding is the fact that carbon can covalently bond to four groups and that the bonding geometry of the carbon atom is tetrahedral. Therefore, if the four groups attached to the carbon are different, then two unique arrangements of the groups around the carbon atom are possible and this carbon is said to be an asymmetric center or a chiral center. The two arrangements of groups about the carbon are mirror images of each other and these two structures are referred to as enantiomers. It is impossible to superimpose these two mirror images, consequently they are distinct molecules. Because the enantiomers have identical functional groups attached to the chiral center they have identical physical and chemical properties - except for the direction they rotate plane polarized light. Experimentally, the enantiomers are distinguished by the direction of rotation of plane polarized light. The enantiomer that rotates light to the right is designated as D (dextro) form of the compound. The other enantiomer will rotate light in the opposite direction, and is designated as the L (levulo) form of the compound. The example shown below is the three carbon carbohydrate, glyceraldehyde. This compound contains a chiral center at the middle, or second carbon, because that carbon has four different groups attached to it. The configuration of atoms in the left-hand structure causes polarized light to be rotated to the right and is therefore the D form. Its mirror image shown on the right, rotates polarized light in the opposite direction, and is therefore the L form. Note that in both compounds the H and OH groups project out of the page towards you, but in the D form the -OH group is to the right of carbon two while in the L-form it points to the left. The two arrangements of atoms around a chiral center are mirror images much as the right hand is a mirror image of the left. The dark black arrows indicate that atoms are above the page and the gray arrows indicate the atoms are below the page. While enantiomers usually undergo chemical reactions in an identical fashion, biological systems are capable of discriminating between these structurally different molecules because biological systems themselves contain chiral centers, such as in amino acids. The ability to discriminate between the enantiomers is an example of bioselectivity. The chemical world has been narrowed by the selective use of specific enantiomers (in this case only D-glyceraldehyde) by biological systems. chirality When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. Chirality of Chloro-Fluoro Methane Instructions: Chloro-fluoro methane and its mirror image are shown below. Please answer the question using these two structures. Chirality of Chloro-Fluoro-Bromo Methane Instructions: One additional hydrogen has been replaced by bromine (colored purple). One form of the molecule is shown on the left and it's mirror image is on the right. Use these two structures to answer the question on the right. Chirality of Glyceraldehyde Instructions: Try to determine the chirality of glyceraldehyde, one ot the simplest organic molecules found in biology. A static image of L-glyceraldehyde is shown on the left. Is the right 3D structure the D form or the L form of glyceraldehyde? L-Glyceraldehyde Glyceraldehyde Chirality of Threonine Instructions: Try to identify the chiral center(s) of a more complicated molecule - the amino acid threonine, one of the building blocks of proteins. L-Threonine Ionic bonds form between oppositely charged atoms. No electron sharing or transfer occurs. The atoms are attracted to each other due to their opposite charges. For example, the positive Na ion, and negatively charged Cl ion, are attracted to each other and form table salt. In an aqueous solution, these ions are completely dissociated and are defined as strong electrolytes. In water molecules surround the ions to form polar interactions to satisfy the charges on the ions. Thus the ions become encapsulated by water spheres, which are called spheres of hydration. The biological world is very ionic and the spheres of hydration are important in a cell because they maintain the separation of the many ions of the cell from each other. The sphere of hydration must be broken in order for binding to take place with a specific binding partner. Previously, water was described as having a high dielectric constant. This property that is a measure of the polarity of the covalent bond within the molecule accounts for the separation of ions by polar molecules such as water. The force of attraction between two oppositely charged ions is inversely proportional to the dielectric constant. Thus water with a high dielectric constant decreases the attraction between opposite charges. This is physically explained by the ability of polar solvents to form ordered hydration layers around ions. Hydrogen bonding was covered in Water -- Hydrogen Bonding (go there now.) Remember that hydrogen bonding occurs between partially negatively charged electronegative atoms, and partially positively charged hydrogen atoms that are attached to electronegative atoms such as oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur. Hydrogen bonding is a critical bonding in the cell. It is the principal bonding that holds the tertiary structure of proteins, carbohydrates and nucleic acids together and the overall stability of these molecules is due in part to the cumulative effect of the large number of hydrogen bonds found in the functional structures. Hydrogen bonds are found in and between a variety of molecules. For example, the enormous number of hydrogen bonds between strands of cellulose provide the strength and structure of the plant cell wall. The nature of polar molecules is that they contain electronegative atoms, consequently they are capable of hydrogen bonding with aqueous or polar solvents. Because polar molecules are generally water soluble, they are referred to as being hydrophilic, or water-loving. The one-carbon alcohol, methanol, is an example of a polar molecule. The final type of interaction occurs between neutral, hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules. These molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. For example, shaking a bottle of oil and vinegar (acetic acid in water), such as in a salad dressing, results in the oil being dispersed as tiny droplets in the vinegar. As the mixture settles, the oil collects in larger and larger drops until it only exists as a layer, or phase, above the vinegar. A similar effect occurs in biological systems. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Similarly, biological membranes are stabilized by the exclusion of water between layers of lipids as we will see later. The hydrophobic effect does not involve direct bonding between the non-polar molecules, it is an entropy driven process. You may recall that processes that increase the disorder of a system are more favorable. When a hydrophobic molecule is truly dissolved in water, the water forms a highly ordered ice-like shell around the compound. When the hydrophobic molecules contact each during separation of the aqueous and non-polar phases, the ordered water is released and become highly disordered. The increase in disorder of the released water molecules is responsible for the spontaneous assembly of many biological systems, such as proteins and membranes. Mixed Non-polar/polar molecules: Of course, there are instances where even molecules with electronegative atoms will not be water soluble. Computer algorithms are currently used to predict water solubility based on structure. For our purposes, we will balance the ratio of polar and non-polar elements in a structure to estimate the chemical nature of any compound we are going to study. Amphipathic molecules are molecules that have a distinct non-polar, or hydrophobic region, and a distinct polar region. These molecules do not form true solution is water. Rather, the non-polar parts are forced together into a non-polar aggregate, leaving the polar part of the molecule to interact with the aqueous phase. Detergents and long-chain carboxylic acids are examples of amphipathic molecules. An important force in biochemistry is due to van der Waals interactions. This interaction occurs between any two surfaces that are in contact. The force is actually an electrostatic one that occurs as a result of a momentary fluctuation in the charge on one surface.. This charge causes the other surface to momentarily assume the opposite charge, leading to a net attractive force. If one of the surfaces has a permanent dipole, due to the presence of electronegative or electropositive atoms, then the attraction is stronger. The strength of van der Waals forces depend on the contact surface area; the larger the area the larger the interaction. At the molecular level, van der Waals interactions can contribute 10s of kJ/mol of energy. At the macroscopic level van der Waals forces can become quite large. For example, the common gecko generates sufficient van der Waals forces due to the large surface area of its foot pads to walk on the ceiling! Origin of van der Waals effects. Two neutral surfaces (left) have no net attraction. One surface becomes charged for a short period of time. The charge on one surface generates a charge of the opposite sign on the other surface, leading to an attractive force between the two surfaces. A short time later the charges reverse in sign, again generating an attractive force between the two surfaces. Each of the bond types represents a measurable amount of energy. To break a bond, the equivalent amount of energy must be expended. In metabolism, bonds are broken in molecules, such as glucose, to "release" the energy. The cell utilizes this energy to drive other energy consuming reactions. The covalent bond has the most energy associated with it, on average approximately 100 kilocalories/mole (kcal/mol). The non-covalent bonds, ionic and hydrogen, and hydrophobic interactions, have approximately 5 kcals/mol associated with each of them. It should be noted here that throughout the presentation of this course approximations will be used for certain values so that estimations can be made as we move to more complex systems. It is to be acknowledged that very precise values for each of the measurements are not available. Thus the non-covalent bonds that have been introduced have approximately 20 times less energy associated with them and, thus, are more easily broken individually. However, hydrogen bonds generally form extensive networks, and the total energy associated with the network is the sum of the individual interactions. As anyone who has done a "belly buster" knows, breaking a large surface area of water is extremely difficult (and painful!). Energy Associated with the Different Bonds Bond Energy, kcal/mol Covalent 100 Ionic 5 Hydrogen 5 Hydrophobic interactions 5 van der Waals 5 (depends on surface area) When NaCl dissolves in water, each atom becomes surrounded by at least 20 water molecules. As NaCl there is 5 kcal/mol of energy associated with the ionic attraction of the cation and anion, but when a Na ion is surrounded by 20 water molecules, there is 100 kcal/mol of energy associated with just the Na ion. Thus, NaCl in an aqueous solution is energetically more favored than NaCl as the ionically bonded molecule due to the resulting hydrated state. You will explore what happens to molecules that only partially dissociate, or weak electrolytes, in water in the next module.   Water By the end of this exploration of water, students will be able to: Define and draw the structure of a hydrogen bond between any two appropriate molecules. Determine the total number of hydrogen bonds possible from a given electronegative atom. Describe properties of water that make it the most suitable to support living systems. Explain the basic structure of a water molecule and how it can form a three dimensional structure. Water and Hydrogen Bonding Water is the solvent of life on Earth. It has several properties that contribute to its suitability to support life as we know it. One property derived from the special properties of oxygen is that water is a polar molecule. Oxygen is electronegative and draws the electrons that it shares in the covalent bond with hydrogen towards itself. Water is polar. The electronegative oxygen (red) draws electrons to it, creating the partial negative charge on oxygen and partial positive charge on hydrogen. Water Molecular Structures In pure water, the partially negative oxygen of one molecule attracts the partially positive hydrogens from another water molecules to form a non-covalent bonding interaction called a hydrogen bond. Hydrogen Bonding The attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. However, only hydrogens covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Animation demonstrating hydrogen bonding in water. Adjust the volume on your computer and click the play button. Details of a Water Molecule A water molecule attracts four other water molecules towards it: one each to the two free pairs of electrons in the valence shell, and one each to the hydrogens covalently bonded to the oxygen. As the water molecules associate with each other they have a defined structure dictated by the tetrahydral geometry script('set windowcentered off;center atomno=1;zoomto 1.0 250;set windowcentered on;select 1,2,41,15,28;define tetra selected;select (not tetra);define nt selected;select nt and oxygen;color [250,20,20];select nt and hydrogen;color [250,250,250];select nt;color translucent 0.1;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [245,40,40];select nt and hydrogen;color [245,245,245];select nt;color translucent 0.2;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [240,60,60];select nt and hydrogen;color [240,240,240];select nt;color translucent 0.3;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [235,80,80];select nt and hydrogen;color [235,235,235];select nt;color translucent 0.4;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [230,100,100];select nt and hydrogen;color [230,230,230];select nt;color translucent 0.5;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [225,120,120];select nt and hydrogen;color [225,225,225];select nt;color translucent 0.6;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [220,140,140];select nt and hydrogen;color [220,220,220];select nt;color translucent 0.7;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [215,160,160];select nt and hydrogen;color [215,215,215];select nt;color translucent 0.8;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [210,180,180];select nt and hydrogen;color [210,210,210];select nt;color translucent 0.9;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [205,200,200];select nt and hydrogen;color [205,205,205];select nt;color translucent 1.0;draw line1 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=79);color $line1 yellow;draw line2 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=34);color $line2 yellow;draw line3 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=58);color $line3 yellow;draw line4 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=4);color $line4 yellow;moveto 1.0 706 704 77 31 250;measure (atomno=79)(atomno=1)(atomno=34);font measure 30 SERIF bold') of the electrons around the oxygen atom as seen in the Jmol image below. The partially positive hydrogens associate with the free electron pairs from other water molecules, while the partially negative charge on the oxygen's free electron pairs associate with the partially positive hydrogens from another water molecule. Use the 3-D JMOL image below to examine the structure of an ice crystal and observe the orientation of water molecules in the crystal. Water- Ice Answering questions like the one above is good practice for answering the kinds of questions that may appear on the exams. Your answers may also shape discussions in class. Water is the solvent of life on Earth. It has several properties that contribute to its suitability to support life as we know it. One property derived from the special properties of oxygen is that water is a polar molecule. Oxygen is electronegative and draws the electrons that it shares in the covalent bond with hydrogen towards itself. Water is polar. The electronegative oxygen (red) draws electrons to it, creating the partial negative charge on oxygen and partial positive charge on hydrogen. Water Molecular Structures In pure water, the partially negative oxygen of one molecule attracts the partially positive hydrogens from another water molecules to form a non-covalent bonding interaction called a hydrogen bond. Hydrogen Bonding The attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. However, only hydrogens covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Animation demonstrating hydrogen bonding in water. Adjust the volume on your computer and click the play button. Details of a Water Molecule A water molecule attracts four other water molecules towards it: one each to the two free pairs of electrons in the valence shell, and one each to the hydrogens covalently bonded to the oxygen. As the water molecules associate with each other they have a defined structure dictated by the tetrahydral geometry script('set windowcentered off;center atomno=1;zoomto 1.0 250;set windowcentered on;select 1,2,41,15,28;define tetra selected;select (not tetra);define nt selected;select nt and oxygen;color [250,20,20];select nt and hydrogen;color [250,250,250];select nt;color translucent 0.1;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [245,40,40];select nt and hydrogen;color [245,245,245];select nt;color translucent 0.2;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [240,60,60];select nt and hydrogen;color [240,240,240];select nt;color translucent 0.3;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [235,80,80];select nt and hydrogen;color [235,235,235];select nt;color translucent 0.4;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [230,100,100];select nt and hydrogen;color [230,230,230];select nt;color translucent 0.5;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [225,120,120];select nt and hydrogen;color [225,225,225];select nt;color translucent 0.6;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [220,140,140];select nt and hydrogen;color [220,220,220];select nt;color translucent 0.7;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [215,160,160];select nt and hydrogen;color [215,215,215];select nt;color translucent 0.8;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [210,180,180];select nt and hydrogen;color [210,210,210];select nt;color translucent 0.9;delay 0.1;select nt and oxygen;color [205,200,200];select nt and hydrogen;color [205,205,205];select nt;color translucent 1.0;draw line1 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=79);color $line1 yellow;draw line2 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=34);color $line2 yellow;draw line3 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=58);color $line3 yellow;draw line4 diameter 10 (atomno=1)(atomno=4);color $line4 yellow;moveto 1.0 706 704 77 31 250;measure (atomno=79)(atomno=1)(atomno=34);font measure 30 SERIF bold') of the electrons around the oxygen atom as seen in the Jmol image below. The partially positive hydrogens associate with the free electron pairs from other water molecules, while the partially negative charge on the oxygen's free electron pairs associate with the partially positive hydrogens from another water molecule. Use the 3-D JMOL image below to examine the structure of an ice crystal and observe the orientation of water molecules in the crystal. Water- Ice Answering questions like the one above is good practice for answering the kinds of questions that may appear on the exams. Your answers may also shape discussions in class.   Definitions of Terms The following is the list of terms defined in UNIT 1 of this course. Ionic Bond An ion is an atom or a molecule that carries a charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. Ionic bonds are interactions between oppositely charged ions. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. Abiotic An adjective that describes materials that are considered nonliving. Rocks, air, and ice are abiotic. Atom The basic unit of matter that cannot be further broken down without losing its unique properties. One atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by a cloud of electrons. The diagram below represents an atom of carbon. Biology The scientific study of life. Biology is a vast subject divided into many branches or subdivisions representing areas of specialization. Branches of biology include: anatomy, biochemistry, ecology, evolution, genetics, immunology, physiology, and many more. Biosphere All areas on, within, and around the planet Earth that are capable of supporting life. Biotic An adjective that describes living organisms or their remains. Common characteristics of biotic (living) things are that they use energy and raw materials to grow, sense and respond to changing environments; they reproduce; and they consist of one or more cells. Cell The smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life. Cells are fluid-filled spaces bound by a membrane. When first formed, all cells include DNA and other macromolecules and are organized to grow, reproduce, and respond to changes in the external environment. Chemistry The study of matter and its structure, properties, and reactions. Understanding the basic principles of chemistry is vitally important in studying biology, as many biological interactions involve chemistry. Community All of the populations interacting with each other within a specified area. Ecosystem All the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic (nonliving) materials and conditions in that area. Emergent Properties Characteristics of a system that do not appear in any one of its component parts alone, but that appear when all parts are combined. Macromolecule A large and complex molecule formed from combining smaller subunits, and consisting of many atoms. There are four main types of macromolecules that you will be learning about in this course: carbohydrates, nucleic acids, lipids, and proteins. Microorganism A life form that cannot be seen with the naked eye; also called a microbe. Microorganisms include bacteria, many single-celled eukaryotes (plants, animals, fungi, and small creatures called protists), and even some multicellular life forms. Molecule Two or more atoms held together by a chemical bond. The diagram below illustrates a molecule of methane (CH4), in which four hydrogen (H) atoms are covalently bonded to one carbon (C) atom. Organ A collection of tissues grouped together based on a common general function. Some common organs in the human body are the heart, lungs, and kidneys. Organelle A compartment inside the cells of eukaryotes that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. Organism An organism is an individual living entity that survives and reproduces as a unit. Examples include a single bacterial cell, a plant grown from a single seed, or you—as an individual human being. Organ System Functionally-related organs that work together to carry out a function throughout an organism’s body. Your body is made up of many organ systems, including the skeletal, digestive, and circulatory systems. Population All the individuals of a single species living within a specified area. Tissue A group of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function within an organism. In the lung, for instance, the lining of airways comprises one type of tissue: a layer of similar cells that forms a sealed surface. Consumer An organism that must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms. Consumers get their energy and nutrients from such food molecules. Humans and other animals are consumers, as are fungi and most bacteria. Development Change in structure and function that occurs in an orderly way as an organism passes through its life cycle. Energy The capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter. Enzyme A protein that speeds up the rate of chemical reactions that support life. Evolution A scientific theory explaining how and why genetic changes occur in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time. Growth Increase in size of an organism. Biological growth, unlike the growth of a glacier or a mountain, is not merely an increase in size; it also involves the reorganization of materials into the unique structures of the organism. Homeostasis The tendency of organisms and cells to maintain stable internal conditions. The term comes from the Greek words homeo (same, alike) and stasis (standing). Nutrients Forms of matter that an organism requires and that the organism cannot make for itself. Nutrients must be taken in from the outside environment. Humans obtain nutrients from the food we eat and the water we drink. Plants take up nutrients through their roots (water and dissolved minerals) and from the air (carbon dioxide gas). Producers Organisms that use simple materials, such as water and carbon dioxide, as nutrients and use an outside source of energy (e.g., energy from sunlight) to make their own food from these materials. Plants are an example of producers. Reproduction Process by which an individual organism gives rise to offspring, passing on its genetic information to the next generation. Selection Process in which characteristics of a population change predictably over many generations. Selection takes forms such as natural selection (favors traits that aid in survival to reproductive age), sexual selection (favors traits that boost mating success), and artificial selection (favors traits that are chosen by human breeders). Control Group A group of subjects in an experiment that does not receive the treatment to be evaluated, but is otherwise similar to the experimental group. The control group provides a strong basis for comparison, demonstrating what happens in the absence of the factor being tested. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, experimenters would predict that the control group subjects—those who did not receive the drug—would not be cured over the course of the study. Dependent Variable An effect; a variable that is thought to change as a result or consequence of some other variable. In an experiment, a dependent variable is used to describe the result, or outcome. For example, in a study to test a drug, the dependent variable might be the proportion of subjects that are cured at the end of the study. Experimental Group A group of subjects in an experiment that receives the treatment to be evaluated. If the hypothesis is correct, the dependent variable will change in a predictable way within the experimental group. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, a high proportion of those in the experimental group would be cured or helped by the treatment, if the hypothesis is correct. Hypothesis A proposed explanation of an observation; often referred to as an “educated guess.” In the process of the scientific method, a hypothesis is tested through experimentation and/or observation. Independent Variable A cause or factor; a variable that is thought to cause another variable to change. In an experiment, an independent variable is deliberately changed in one group at the beginning of the study. For example, in a study to test a drug, one group might be given the drug and another group would not; the independent variable in this example would be whether patients were given the drug. Scientific Experiment A structured and active process used to test a hypothesis. In an experiment, the scientist has some form of control over the variables at work in the system under study. Typically some variable is deliberately changed by the experimenter and other variables are monitored to see if they change as a result. Scientific Observation a process used to explore and describe patterns in nature. In a strictly observational study, the scientist does not have control over the conditions or variables at work in the system under study. The scientist reports what has happened without taking steps to intervene in the system. Variable A characteristic of a subject that can vary from one subject to the next or over time. A variable may be a category to which a subject can be assigned (for example: male or female) or it may be measured precisely (for example: body mass). Adhesion The attraction of water molecules to molecules other than water. Capillary action (in which water will spontaneously climb up the walls of a tube without pumping) is a result of the adhesion of water molecules with the surface of a tube containing the water. Atomic mass Mass of an atom. Can be approximated by adding the number of protons and the number of neutrons. Atomic number Number of protons in each atom, which is equal to the number of electrons in each atom--unless the atom is ionized. As seen in this diagram of an atom, lithium has three protons in its nucleus. Therefore the atomic number of lithium is 3. Aqueous solutions Solutions in which water is the solvent. Chemical bonds Attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. There are three major types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: i) covalent, ii) ionic, and iii) hydrogen bonds. Cohesion Describes a property of matter in which particles tend to stick together. Liquid water is cohesive and forms spherical droplets because of its hydrogen bonds which attract the individual water molecules to each other. Covalent bonds Chemical bonds that form molecules and are a result of sharing of electrons; electrons can be shared equally (non-polar covalent) or unequally (polar covalent). In the diagram below that illustrates the formation of a methane molecule, the carbon atom shares each of its 4 valence electrons with one hydrogen atom, which in turn shares its 1 valence electron with the carbon atom. Electron Negatively charged subatomic particle that occupies shells surrounding the nucleus and has a mass that is so small it is considered to be zero. Electronegativity The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Strongly electronegative atoms bonded to weakly electronegative hydrogen atoms, in a molecule, result in hydrogen bonding. The most important strongly electronegative elements in biological systems are oxygen and nitrogen. Hydrogen bonds Weak electrostatic attraction that occurs between the partial positive charge on the H atom of one polar molecule and the partial negative charge in some region of another polar molecule. The separation of charge within a molecule (required for hydrogen bonding between molecules) usually occurs where an electronegative element (usually O or N) is bonded to a hydrogen atom. Hydrophilic Substances that dissolve in or are attracted to water. “Water-loving.” Ionic and polar substances are hydrophilic. Ion An atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and consequently has a positive or a negative charge. Positive ions are referred to as cations. Negative ions are referred to as anions. Ionic bond An attractive force generated by the interactions between ions of opposite charges. In the formation of an ionic bond, electrons are said to be transferred from one atom to another. Isotopes Two atoms with the same atomic number (because they are the same element and have the same number of protons), but different atomic mass (because they have different numbers of neutrons). Carbon-12 (the number after the hyphen, 12 in this example, indicates the atomic mass), which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons and Carbon-13, which has 6 protons and 7 neutrons are two isotopes of carbon. Matter Anything that occupies space and has mass. neutron Subatomic particle with a neutral charge that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Nucleus The word nucleus is used in two different contexts in the study of biology. Loosely defined, nucleus means "center" or "core." Here, in a study of basic chemistry, nucleus means "the center of an atom." In this case, the nucleus is a central area in which the atom’s heavy particles (protons and neutrons) are packed close together. When discussing cell structure, the word nucleus refers to the central organelle of the eukaryotic cell. It consists of the cell’s DNA enclosed in a double-layered membrane and can be thought of as the “command center” of the eukaryotic cell. Proton Positively charged subatomic particle that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Solute Component of a solution that is present in the smallest quantity and which dissolves in a solvent. Solutions Homogeneous mixtures of solvent and solute. Solvent Component of a solution that is present in the greatest quantity and in which something else is dissolved. Surface Tension The capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. Valence Electrons The electrons in the outermost shell of the atom, which are available for chemical bonding. This diagram of a carbon atom illustrates that carbon has 4 valence electrons.   Cycling of Chemical Elements All living things are made of carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids, and they all contain roughly the same blend of chemical elements. The most important are carbon (C), hydrogen (H), oxygen (O), nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and sulfur (S). Earth has a finite stock of each of these chemical elements, but the atoms are immortal. In any transfer or reaction the total number of atoms of each element will stay the same. Matter does not disappear or appear from nothing; it is conserved. Earth’s immortal atoms move through living things as we feed, breathe, and excrete solid and liquid wastes. The same atoms are also found in abiotic reservoirs, stored up within rocks, soil, water, and air. They bond with other elements to take shape as many different materials. Carbon, for example, makes up the backbone of all organic macromolecules. Outside of life, it exists as carbon dioxide gas that mixes into the air and dissolves into water. This gas gives carbonated beverages their fizz. Limestone rock, coal, and diamonds are some solid materials rich in carbon. Organisms must obtain chemical nutrients in very specific forms. You would starve without suitable organic macromolecules (food), even if you were surrounded by carbon-rich limestone, air, and wood. A plant has very different needs. It would starve without access to carbon dioxide gas, even if you planted its roots in a juicy porterhouse steak. Organisms’ needs are met through continuous recycling of chemical elements. Direct biotic cycling occurs when producers use wastes excreted by consumers; urine contains nitrogen and phosphorus compounds that can act as plant fertilizer. Cycling also occurs through decomposition. When an organism dies, its macromolecules are broken down by bacteria or fungi and the elements are returned to soil, air or water as simpler compounds. Physical processes (weather, formation and erosion of rocks, etc.) also transform and transport elements. Biogeochemical cycles are the pathways that chemical elements follow through ecosystems; they involve life (bio) and nonliving components (geo) . Biogeochemical Cycles We will discuss four cycles that are key for living things: the water, carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus cycles. Key features of each cycle are summarized below in the table: Water H2O Carbon C Nitrogen N Phosphorus P main gaseous form water vapor (H2O) carbon dioxide (CO2) Nitrogen gas (N2) none importance to life solvent that makes up most of the mass of all living cells; stabilizes temperature forms the backbone of carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids found in proteins and nucleic acids found in phospholipids, ATP, and nucleic acids abiotic reservoirs air, groundwater, ice, salt and fresh water bodies air, dissolved in water, soil, rock air, dissolved in water, soil dissolved in water, soil, rock available to producers as liquid water carbon dioxide (CO2) in air or dissolved in water ammonium (NH4+) or nitrate (NO3−) dissolved in water phosphate (PO43−) dissolved in water major driving processes physical processes (evaporation, precipitation) plus plant transpiration aerobic respiration and photosynthesis; formation and erosion of rocks bacterial action; for example, bacteria convert N2 gas from air to usable form for producers formation and erosion of rocks The Water Cycle Water is an input to photosynthesis and a waste product of aerobic respiration, so it is biotically cycled. These flows are relatively small. Solar energy powers the major processes driving Earth’s water cycle. Water evaporates, condenses in the air, returns to Earth as precipitation, and is transported through wind, river flow, and ocean currents. Land plants play an important role in the water cycle. They take up water through their roots and release it as vapor through tiny holes in their leaves called stomata. This process, called transpiration, greatly accelerates the transfer of water from soil to the atmosphere. A forest can increase humidity and even boost rainfall in a region through this process. The Global Water Cycle Water is cycled by physical processes between the oceans, atmosphere, glaciers, soil, and fresh water. Source: USGS (Water Cycle) Public Domain Humans also influence the water cycle by damming rivers and by pumping groundwater. We slow the return of water to the ocean and redistribute it to meet our needs; by far the largest human use of water is crop irrigation. The Carbon Cycle Carbon is cycled through a variety of biological and physical processes. Photosynthesis removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere; aerobic respiration by living plants and animals returns carbon to the air. Decomposition, a combination of aerobic respiration and fermentation carried out by microbes, takes carbon from dead material and returns it to the atmosphere. In the much longer term, geologic processes store carbon in fossil fuels and in rocks such as limestone. This stored carbon is slowly returned to active circulation by erosion of rock and by volcanic eruptions. The Global Carbon Cycle “Fast” flows and stores of carbon in the global carbon cycle. Numbers are in gigatons or billions of tons of carbon. Numbers in parentheses are stocks; yellow numbers are natural flows and red numbers are human-generated flows in gigatons per year. Fossil fuels and deep oceans hold large masses of carbon. Natural flows into and out of the atmosphere (photosynthesis, respiration, decomposition, air-sea exchange) are roughly balanced. Source: NASA (Carbon Cycle) Public Domain The Nitrogen Cycle Nitrogen is cycled mainly through biological processes. The atmosphere is a huge reservoir of nitrogen; it is almost 80% N2 gas. However, most life forms cannot use nitrogen gas. Plants and algae obtain nitrogen as nitrate (NO3−) or ammonium (NH4+). These compounds dissolve in water and are absorbed directly (algae) or taken up through the roots (plants). Bacteria are the key intermediaries that drive the nitrogen cycle. Some bacteria, called nitrogen fixers, transform N2 gas to ammonium that plants can use. Bacterial and fungal decomposers break down dead organic matter and also generate ammonium. In traditional and organic agriculture, plant and animal wastes (particularly manure) are collected and composted to favor the activity of decomposers and nitrifying bacteria. The resulting nitrate-rich compost is spread on fields, providing usable nitrogen to crop plants. The Terrestrial Nitrogen Cycle Biological cycling of nitrogen through terrestrial ecosystems. Only a few chemical forms of nitrogen are available for uptake (assimilation) by plants. Bacteria play multiple roles in the nitrogen cycle, including nitrogen fixation and decomposition. Source: EPA (Nitrogen Cycle) Public Domain The Phospohrus Cycle Phosphorus does not have a gaseous form, so it is not cycled globally through the atmosphere. Instead it circulates among living organisms, soil, water, and rocks. You can think of the phosphorus cycle as a combination of two cycles: one fast and local, the other very slow and global. The fast cycle is driven by producers, consumers, and decomposers. Plants and algae take up phosphate dissolved in water and use it to make organic compounds. Consumers feed on them and excrete phosphorus in their feces and urine. Bacteria and fungi decompose dead organic matter and return phosphates to the soil and water, completing the loop. Producers are extremely efficient in taking up phosphate from water and phosphorus is often a key resource that limits the growth of plants. Phosphorus does not have a gaseous form, so it is not cycled globally through the atmosphere. Instead it circulates among living organisms, soil, water, and rocks. You can think of the phosphorus cycle as a combination of two cycles: one fast and local, the other very slow and global. The fast cycle is driven by producers, consumers, and decomposers. Plants and algae take up phosphate dissolved in water and use it to make organic compounds. Consumers feed on them and excrete phosphorus in their feces and urine. Bacteria and fungi decompose dead organic matter and return phosphates to the soil and water, completing the loop. The slow phosphorus cycle involves the buildup, movement, and erosion of rocks. Over time, phosphorus tends to follow the flow of water downhill. Phosphorus-rich sediments build up on ocean and lake bottoms, forming phosphate rocks over time. Seabird and bat colonies can also produce concentrated deposits of guano (excrement) that is very rich in phosphates. Through slow geologic processes, rocks containing phosphorus can be lifted up to form new land masses and their erosion can make phosphates available to producers once again. Humans now play a huge role in the global nitrogen and phosphorus cycles. Today, artificial fertilizer production fixes more nitrogen than all natural processes combined. Phosphate mining removes phosphorus from storage in rocks much more quickly than natural uplift and erosion. Fertilizers run off farm fields and enter water bodies directly; human and animal wastes also deliver excess nitrogen and phosphorus to water bodies. The result is eutrophication, the overfertilization of aquatic ecosystems by humans. Excess ammonium can kill fish. Extra phosphates and nitrates fuel blooms of algae and cyanobacteria. These turn water pea-soup green and can lead to fish kills and other negative effects. The stuff of life is continually recycled by biological and physical processes. Each element follows its own unique pathway through an ecosystem and is concentrated in specific abiotic reservoirs. Human activities can strongly modify how natural chemical cycles work, sometimes leading to the accumulation of wastes and environmental harm. All living things are made of carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids, and they all contain roughly the same blend of chemical elements. The most important are carbon (C), hydrogen (H), oxygen (O), nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and sulfur (S). Earth has a finite stock of each of these chemical elements, but the atoms are immortal. In any transfer or reaction the total number of atoms of each element will stay the same. Matter does not disappear or appear from nothing; it is conserved. Earth’s immortal atoms move through living things as we feed, breathe, and excrete solid and liquid wastes. The same atoms are also found in abiotic reservoirs, stored up within rocks, soil, water, and air. They bond with other elements to take shape as many different materials. Carbon, for example, makes up the backbone of all organic macromolecules. Outside of life, it exists as carbon dioxide gas that mixes into the air and dissolves into water. This gas gives carbonated beverages their fizz. Limestone rock, coal, and diamonds are some solid materials rich in carbon. Organisms must obtain chemical nutrients in very specific forms. You would starve without suitable organic macromolecules (food), even if you were surrounded by carbon-rich limestone, air, and wood. A plant has very different needs. It would starve without access to carbon dioxide gas, even if you planted its roots in a juicy porterhouse steak. Organisms’ needs are met through continuous recycling of chemical elements. Direct biotic cycling occurs when producers use wastes excreted by consumers; urine contains nitrogen and phosphorus compounds that can act as plant fertilizer. Cycling also occurs through decomposition. When an organism dies, its macromolecules are broken down by bacteria or fungi and the elements are returned to soil, air or water as simpler compounds. Physical processes (weather, formation and erosion of rocks, etc.) also transform and transport elements. Biogeochemical cycles are the pathways that chemical elements follow through ecosystems; they involve life (bio) and nonliving components (geo) . We will discuss four cycles that are key for living things: the water, carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus cycles. Key features of each cycle are summarized below in the table: Water H2O Carbon C Nitrogen N Phosphorus P main gaseous form water vapor (H2O) carbon dioxide (CO2) Nitrogen gas (N2) none importance to life solvent that makes up most of the mass of all living cells; stabilizes temperature forms the backbone of carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids found in proteins and nucleic acids found in phospholipids, ATP, and nucleic acids abiotic reservoirs air, groundwater, ice, salt and fresh water bodies air, dissolved in water, soil, rock air, dissolved in water, soil dissolved in water, soil, rock available to producers as liquid water carbon dioxide (CO2) in air or dissolved in water ammonium (NH4+) or nitrate (NO3−) dissolved in water phosphate (PO43−) dissolved in water major driving processes physical processes (evaporation, precipitation) plus plant transpiration aerobic respiration and photosynthesis; formation and erosion of rocks bacterial action; for example, bacteria convert N2 gas from air to usable form for producers formation and erosion of rocks Water is an input to photosynthesis and a waste product of aerobic respiration, so it is biotically cycled. These flows are relatively small. Solar energy powers the major processes driving Earth’s water cycle. Water evaporates, condenses in the air, returns to Earth as precipitation, and is transported through wind, river flow, and ocean currents. Land plants play an important role in the water cycle. They take up water through their roots and release it as vapor through tiny holes in their leaves called stomata. This process, called transpiration, greatly accelerates the transfer of water from soil to the atmosphere. A forest can increase humidity and even boost rainfall in a region through this process. The Global Water Cycle Water is cycled by physical processes between the oceans, atmosphere, glaciers, soil, and fresh water. Source: USGS (Water Cycle) Public Domain Humans also influence the water cycle by damming rivers and by pumping groundwater. We slow the return of water to the ocean and redistribute it to meet our needs; by far the largest human use of water is crop irrigation. Carbon is cycled through a variety of biological and physical processes. Photosynthesis removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere; aerobic respiration by living plants and animals returns carbon to the air. Decomposition, a combination of aerobic respiration and fermentation carried out by microbes, takes carbon from dead material and returns it to the atmosphere. In the much longer term, geologic processes store carbon in fossil fuels and in rocks such as limestone. This stored carbon is slowly returned to active circulation by erosion of rock and by volcanic eruptions. The Global Carbon Cycle “Fast” flows and stores of carbon in the global carbon cycle. Numbers are in gigatons or billions of tons of carbon. Numbers in parentheses are stocks; yellow numbers are natural flows and red numbers are human-generated flows in gigatons per year. Fossil fuels and deep oceans hold large masses of carbon. Natural flows into and out of the atmosphere (photosynthesis, respiration, decomposition, air-sea exchange) are roughly balanced. Source: NASA (Carbon Cycle) Public Domain Nitrogen is cycled mainly through biological processes. The atmosphere is a huge reservoir of nitrogen; it is almost 80% N2 gas. However, most life forms cannot use nitrogen gas. Plants and algae obtain nitrogen as nitrate (NO3−) or ammonium (NH4+). These compounds dissolve in water and are absorbed directly (algae) or taken up through the roots (plants). Bacteria are the key intermediaries that drive the nitrogen cycle. Some bacteria, called nitrogen fixers, transform N2 gas to ammonium that plants can use. Bacterial and fungal decomposers break down dead organic matter and also generate ammonium. In traditional and organic agriculture, plant and animal wastes (particularly manure) are collected and composted to favor the activity of decomposers and nitrifying bacteria. The resulting nitrate-rich compost is spread on fields, providing usable nitrogen to crop plants. The Terrestrial Nitrogen Cycle Biological cycling of nitrogen through terrestrial ecosystems. Only a few chemical forms of nitrogen are available for uptake (assimilation) by plants. Bacteria play multiple roles in the nitrogen cycle, including nitrogen fixation and decomposition. Source: EPA (Nitrogen Cycle) Public Domain Phosphorus does not have a gaseous form, so it is not cycled globally through the atmosphere. Instead it circulates among living organisms, soil, water, and rocks. You can think of the phosphorus cycle as a combination of two cycles: one fast and local, the other very slow and global. The fast cycle is driven by producers, consumers, and decomposers. Plants and algae take up phosphate dissolved in water and use it to make organic compounds. Consumers feed on them and excrete phosphorus in their feces and urine. Bacteria and fungi decompose dead organic matter and return phosphates to the soil and water, completing the loop. Producers are extremely efficient in taking up phosphate from water and phosphorus is often a key resource that limits the growth of plants. Phosphorus does not have a gaseous form, so it is not cycled globally through the atmosphere. Instead it circulates among living organisms, soil, water, and rocks. You can think of the phosphorus cycle as a combination of two cycles: one fast and local, the other very slow and global. The fast cycle is driven by producers, consumers, and decomposers. Plants and algae take up phosphate dissolved in water and use it to make organic compounds. Consumers feed on them and excrete phosphorus in their feces and urine. Bacteria and fungi decompose dead organic matter and return phosphates to the soil and water, completing the loop. The slow phosphorus cycle involves the buildup, movement, and erosion of rocks. Over time, phosphorus tends to follow the flow of water downhill. Phosphorus-rich sediments build up on ocean and lake bottoms, forming phosphate rocks over time. Seabird and bat colonies can also produce concentrated deposits of guano (excrement) that is very rich in phosphates. Through slow geologic processes, rocks containing phosphorus can be lifted up to form new land masses and their erosion can make phosphates available to producers once again. Humans now play a huge role in the global nitrogen and phosphorus cycles. Today, artificial fertilizer production fixes more nitrogen than all natural processes combined. Phosphate mining removes phosphorus from storage in rocks much more quickly than natural uplift and erosion. Fertilizers run off farm fields and enter water bodies directly; human and animal wastes also deliver excess nitrogen and phosphorus to water bodies. The result is eutrophication, the overfertilization of aquatic ecosystems by humans. Excess ammonium can kill fish. Extra phosphates and nitrates fuel blooms of algae and cyanobacteria. These turn water pea-soup green and can lead to fish kills and other negative effects. The stuff of life is continually recycled by biological and physical processes. Each element follows its own unique pathway through an ecosystem and is concentrated in specific abiotic reservoirs. Human activities can strongly modify how natural chemical cycles work, sometimes leading to the accumulation of wastes and environmental harm.   Unit Summary: Introduction to Chemistry Everything around you is made of atoms. After completing this unit, you should have an understanding of the different subatomic particles that make up the atom: protons, neutrons, and electrons. These particles are important in determining the properties of the atom as well as the interactions between two or more atoms. When atoms interact, they may share electrons. This allows the atoms to connect, or form covalent chemical bonds. It is the ability of the atom to form chemical bonds with other atoms that enables the incredible diversity in forms of matter that you see around you. Ions of opposite charge can interact by electrostatic forces, making ionic bonds. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. Water molecules form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules. The hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules give water some important properties that enable life. One such property is the polar nature of water, which makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like glucose. Hydrophobic nonpolar compounds do not interact with water because of hydrophobic effect; the ordering of water molecules around the dissolved nonpolar molecules is very unfavorable. Another important aspect of biological solutions is pH, or the hydrogen ion concentration. You should be able to distinguish between an acid and a base and be able to discuss the importance of buffering in biological systems. Hydrogen ions are simple structures that have a big impact on living systems. The more hydrogen ions that are found in a substance, the more acidic the substance. As you’ll learn in the next unit, hydrogen ions can affect the shape, or structure, of important biological molecules like enzymes and other proteins. As you already know, structure determines function. When the pH of a cell or organism changes, proteins can change shape, resulting in changed function. Before you move on to learn more about biological molecules like proteins, take some time to assess your understanding of the learning outcomes from this unit. When you feel ready, take the unit quiz. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Everything around you is made of atoms. After completing this unit, you should have an understanding of the different subatomic particles that make up the atom: protons, neutrons, and electrons. These particles are important in determining the properties of the atom as well as the interactions between two or more atoms. When atoms interact, they may share electrons. This allows the atoms to connect, or form covalent chemical bonds. It is the ability of the atom to form chemical bonds with other atoms that enables the incredible diversity in forms of matter that you see around you. Ions of opposite charge can interact by electrostatic forces, making ionic bonds. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. Water molecules form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules. The hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules give water some important properties that enable life. One such property is the polar nature of water, which makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like glucose. Hydrophobic nonpolar compounds do not interact with water because of hydrophobic effect; the ordering of water molecules around the dissolved nonpolar molecules is very unfavorable. Another important aspect of biological solutions is pH, or the hydrogen ion concentration. You should be able to distinguish between an acid and a base and be able to discuss the importance of buffering in biological systems. Hydrogen ions are simple structures that have a big impact on living systems. The more hydrogen ions that are found in a substance, the more acidic the substance. As you’ll learn in the next unit, hydrogen ions can affect the shape, or structure, of important biological molecules like enzymes and other proteins. As you already know, structure determines function. When the pH of a cell or organism changes, proteins can change shape, resulting in changed function. Before you move on to learn more about biological molecules like proteins, take some time to assess your understanding of the learning outcomes from this unit. When you feel ready, take the unit quiz. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.   Unit Summary: Introduction to Chemistry Everything around you is made of atoms. After completing this unit, you should have an understanding of the different subatomic particles that make up the atom: protons, neutrons, and electrons. These particles are important in determining the properties of the atom as well as the interactions between two or more atoms. When atoms interact, they may share electrons. This allows the atoms to connect, or form covalent chemical bonds. It is the ability of the atom to form chemical bonds with other atoms that enables the incredible diversity in forms of matter that you see around you. Ions of opposite charge can interact by electrostatic forces, making ionic bonds. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. Water molecules form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules. The hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules give water some important properties that enable life. One such property is the polar nature of water, which makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like glucose. Hydrophobic nonpolar compounds do not interact with water because of hydrophobic effect; the ordering of water molecules around the dissolved nonpolar molecules is very unfavorable. Another important aspect of biological solutions is pH, or the hydrogen ion concentration. You should be able to distinguish between an acid and a base and be able to discuss the importance of buffering in biological systems. Hydrogen ions are simple structures that have a big impact on living systems. The more hydrogen ions that are found in a substance, the more acidic the substance. As you’ll learn in the next unit, hydrogen ions can affect the shape, or structure, of important biological molecules like enzymes and other proteins. As you already know, structure determines function. When the pH of a cell or organism changes, proteins can change shape, resulting in changed function. Before you move on to learn more about biological molecules like proteins, take some time to assess your understanding of the learning outcomes from this unit. When you feel ready, take the unit quiz. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Everything around you is made of atoms. After completing this unit, you should have an understanding of the different subatomic particles that make up the atom: protons, neutrons, and electrons. These particles are important in determining the properties of the atom as well as the interactions between two or more atoms. When atoms interact, they may share electrons. This allows the atoms to connect, or form covalent chemical bonds. It is the ability of the atom to form chemical bonds with other atoms that enables the incredible diversity in forms of matter that you see around you. Ions of opposite charge can interact by electrostatic forces, making ionic bonds. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. Water molecules form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules. The hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules give water some important properties that enable life. One such property is the polar nature of water, which makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like glucose. Hydrophobic nonpolar compounds do not interact with water because of hydrophobic effect; the ordering of water molecules around the dissolved nonpolar molecules is very unfavorable. Another important aspect of biological solutions is pH, or the hydrogen ion concentration. You should be able to distinguish between an acid and a base and be able to discuss the importance of buffering in biological systems. Hydrogen ions are simple structures that have a big impact on living systems. The more hydrogen ions that are found in a substance, the more acidic the substance. As you’ll learn in the next unit, hydrogen ions can affect the shape, or structure, of important biological molecules like enzymes and other proteins. As you already know, structure determines function. When the pH of a cell or organism changes, proteins can change shape, resulting in changed function. Before you move on to learn more about biological molecules like proteins, take some time to assess your understanding of the learning outcomes from this unit. When you feel ready, take the unit quiz. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.   Unit Summary: Atoms and Chemical Bonds Everything around you is made of atoms. After completing this unit, you should have an understanding of the different subatomic particles that make up the atom: protons, neutrons, and electrons. These particles are important in determining the properties of the atom as well as the interactions between two or more atoms. When atoms interact, they may share electrons. This allows the atoms to connect, or form covalent chemical bonds. It is the ability of the atom to form chemical bonds with other atoms that enables the incredible diversity in forms of matter that you see around you. Ions of opposite charge can interact by electrostatic forces, making ionic bonds. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. Water molecules form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules. The hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules give water some important properties that enable life. One such property is the polar nature of water, which makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like glucose. Hydrophobic nonpolar compounds do not interact with water because of hydrophobic effect; the ordering of water molecules around the dissolved nonpolar molecules is very unfavorable. Before you move on to learn more about biological molecules like proteins, take some time to assess your understanding of the learning outcomes from this unit. When you feel ready, take the unit quiz. Learning Outcome Self-Assessment Activity: Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content. Everything around you is made of atoms. After completing this unit, you should have an understanding of the different subatomic particles that make up the atom: protons, neutrons, and electrons. These particles are important in determining the properties of the atom as well as the interactions between two or more atoms. When atoms interact, they may share electrons. This allows the atoms to connect, or form covalent chemical bonds. It is the ability of the atom to form chemical bonds with other atoms that enables the incredible diversity in forms of matter that you see around you. Ions of opposite charge can interact by electrostatic forces, making ionic bonds. In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. Water molecules form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules. The hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules give water some important properties that enable life. One such property is the polar nature of water, which makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like glucose. Hydrophobic nonpolar compounds do not interact with water because of hydrophobic effect; the ordering of water molecules around the dissolved nonpolar molecules is very unfavorable. Before you move on to learn more about biological molecules like proteins, take some time to assess your understanding of the learning outcomes from this unit. When you feel ready, take the unit quiz. Before you attempt the unit quiz, take some time to reflect on what you learned in this unit. To facilitate this process, we have included the following “My Response” self-assessment activity. In this activity, you will rate your understanding of each learning outcome covered in this unit. You will also be able to formulate questions you still have regarding the content.   Definitions of Terms The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Acids substances that when dissolved in water form an excess of hydronium ions (H3O+). Acids are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) donors. Acids taste sour. Many foods and beverages are acidic, including citrus fruit and tomato juice. Bases substances that when dissolved in water reduce the concentration of hydronium (H3O+) ions. Bases are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) acceptors. Bases taste bitter and feel slippery. Soaps are common basic substances. Neutral Substances that are neutral, like pure water, have equal concentrations of hydrogen (H+) and hydroxide (OH-) ions. pH A measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in a solution. Solutions with a pH less than 7 are acidic. Solutions with a pH of 7 are neutral. Solutions with a pH greater than 7 are basic. A one-point change in pH is equal to a ten-fold difference in the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+). Neutralization process of combining an acid with a base, in which the hydrogen ion/proton (H+) that was associated with water (as a hydronium ion, H3O+) combines with the hydroxide ion (OH-) to produce water (HOH). The general form of a neutralization reaction is: acid + base → salt + water Buffers Solutions which resist changes in pH by acting as either an acid or a base. Blood is an example of a buffered solution. This means that if a small amount of acid or base is introduced to the bloodstream, components in your blood will neutralize the acid or base and the pH of your blood will change only very slightly. Chemical potential energy Energy inherent to the structural arrangement of atoms or molecules that may be released by a chemical reaction. Organic molecules Molecules containing a carbon atom that is covalently bonded to a hydrogen atom (C-H bonds). Many organic molecules also contain oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur. Inorganic Any substance lacking molecules that contain a carbon atom bonded to a hydrogen atom. Examples of common inorganic substances are: water, oxygen gas, carbon dioxide and ionic salts. Carbohydrates an organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a certain proportion. The primary functions of carbohydrates are to: store energy, provide structure, and cell signaling and recognition. Common carbohydrates are sugars and starches. Proteins organic macromolecules made up of amino acids connected by peptide bonds. Proteins serve many functions, some of which include: catalyzing reactions as enzymes, storage, replication, transmission, and regulation of genetic information, and helping maintain structure in an organism. Nucleic acids Organic macromolecules that carry out two main functions in the cell: storage of genetic information and synthesis of proteins. DNA and RNA are both nucleic acids. Lipids Organic marcromolecules that are largely nonpolar (electrons are evenly distributed amongst atoms in a molecule) and as a result are hydrophobic (“water-fearing”). Lipids perform many functions in the cell including: storage of energy for long-term use in the form of fats, insulation from the environment, and building blocks for hormones. Lipids include fats, oils, waxes, phospholipids, and steroids. Adhesion The attraction of water molecules to molecules other than water. Capillary action (in which water will spontaneously climb up the walls of a tube without pumping) is a result of the adhesion of water molecules with the surface of a tube containing the water. Atomic mass Mass of an atom. Can be approximated by adding the number of protons and the number of neutrons. Atomic number Number of protons in each atom, which is equal to the number of electrons in each atom--unless the atom is ionized. As seen in this diagram of an atom, lithium has three protons in its nucleus. Therefore the atomic number of lithium is 3. Aqueous solutions Solutions in which water is the solvent. Chemical bonds Attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. There are three major types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: i) covalent, ii) ionic, and iii) hydrogen bonds. Cohesion Describes a property of matter in which particles tend to stick together. Liquid water is cohesive and forms spherical droplets because of its hydrogen bonds which attract the individual water molecules to each other. Covalent bonds Chemical bonds that form molecules and are a result of sharing of electrons; electrons can be shared equally (non-polar covalent) or unequally (polar covalent). In the diagram below that illustrates the formation of a methane molecule, the carbon atom shares each of its 4 valence electrons with one hydrogen atom, which in turn shares its 1 valence electron with the carbon atom. Electron Negatively charged subatomic particle that occupies shells surrounding the nucleus and has a mass that is so small it is considered to be zero. Electronegativity The ability of an atom to draw shared electrons closer to itself. Strongly electronegative atoms bonded to weakly electronegative hydrogen atoms, in a molecule, result in hydrogen bonding. The most important strongly electronegative elements in biological systems are oxygen and nitrogen. Hydrogen bonds The attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. Weak electrostatic attraction that occurs between the partial positive charge on the hydrogen atom of one polar molecule and the partial negative charge in some region of another polar molecule. The separation of charge within a molecule (required for hydrogen bonding between molecules) usually occurs where an electronegative element (usually oxygen:O or nitrogen:N) is bonded to a hydrogen atom. Hydrophilic Substances that dissolve in or are attracted to water. Hydrophilic (from Greek meaning "water-loving") refers to molecules that are water soluble. Ionic and polar substances are hydrophilic. That is, hydrophilic molecules contain polar functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds with water. Hydrophobic Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Ion An atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and consequently has a positive or a negative charge. Positive ions are referred to as cations. Negative ions are referred to as anions. Ionic bond An attractive force generated by the interactions between ions of opposite charges. Isotopes Two atoms with the same atomic number (because they are the same element and have the same number of protons), but different atomic mass (because they have different numbers of neutrons). Carbon-12 (the number after the hyphen, 12 in this example, indicates the atomic mass), which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons and Carbon-13, which has 6 protons and 7 neutrons are two isotopes of carbon. Matter Anything that occupies space and has mass. The substance, consisting of atoms and subatomic particles, composing all physical objects. Neutron Subatomic particle with a neutral charge that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Nucleus The word nucleus is used in two different contexts in the study of biology. Loosely defined, nucleus means "center" or "core." Here, in a study of basic chemistry, nucleus means "the center of an atom." In this case, the nucleus is a central area in which the atom’s heavy particles (protons and neutrons) are packed close together. When discussing cell structure, the word nucleus refers to the central organelle of the eukaryotic cell. It consists of the cell’s DNA enclosed in a double-layered membrane and can be thought of as the “command center” of the eukaryotic cell. Proton Positively charged subatomic particle that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Solute Component of a solution that is present in the smallest quantity and which dissolves in a solvent. Solutions Homogeneous mixtures of solvent and solute. Solvent Component of a solution that is present in the greatest quantity and in which something else is dissolved. Surface Tension The capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. Valence Electrons The electrons in the outermost shell of the atom, which are available for chemical bonding. This diagram of a carbon atom illustrates that carbon has four (4) valence electrons. Monosaccharide A simple sugar (carbohydrate) containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms in a 1:2:1 ratio respectively. Some common monosaccharides are glucose, fructose, and ribose. Disaccharide A carbohydrate made of two monosaccharides linked together by a covalent bond. Two common disaccharides are sucrose and lactose. glucose + fructose = Sucrose (table sugar) glucose + galactose = Lactose (milk sugar) Polysaccharide A carbohydrate consisting of long chains of monosaccharides. Some common polysaccharides are starch, glycogen, and cellulose. Glycogen A polysaccharide that is stored in the liver and is composed of glucose molecules linked together. Excess glycogen is converted to fat. When food intake is insufficient, glycogen can be broken down into glucose for energy. Starch A branching polysaccharide consisting of linked glucose molecules. Starch is made by producers, not animals. Starch can be broken down into individual glucose molecules that can be used to build ATP. Dietary Fiber Indigestible carbohydrates, which cannot be degraded by human digestive enzymes but that still play important roles in maintaining health. Cellulose, which is a major component of cell walls, is one of the largest contributors to dietary fiber.   Unit Summary: Introduction to Chemistry Summary All cells share a similar chemistry. Cells consist of an aqueous solution, containing ions and small organic molecules, larger macromolecules such as carbohydrates, proteins, and nucleic acids, and closed compartments defined by lipid membranes. We first discussed how some atoms will form ions in water while others, in particular carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen, form covalent bonds with each other in organic chemicals. Two important small organic molecules that you should be familiar with are the carbohydrate glucose and the nucleic acid ATP. Can you describe the role of ATP and glucose in biology? In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. This weak interaction allows molecules to form specific, but reversible connections. Are you able to identify hydrogen bonds and describe their role in the transmission of genetic information? The polar nature of water makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like ATP or glucose. The ability of water to form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules has important biological consequences, such as reducing the density of ice such that it floats. Can you describe the other biologically significant properties of water? Another important aspect of biological solutions is pH, or the hydrogen ion concentration. You should be able to distinguish between an acid and a base and be able to discuss the importance of buffering in biological systems. Production note: Add self-rated competency and "My Response" questions. Key Terms Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. adhesion cohesion hydrophilic neutron solutions atomic mass covalent bonds ion nucleus solvent atomic number electron ionic bond proton surface tension aqueous solutions electronegativity isotopes solute valence electrons chemical bonds Hydrogen bonds matter All cells share a similar chemistry. Cells consist of an aqueous solution, containing ions and small organic molecules, larger macromolecules such as carbohydrates, proteins, and nucleic acids, and closed compartments defined by lipid membranes. We first discussed how some atoms will form ions in water while others, in particular carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen, form covalent bonds with each other in organic chemicals. Two important small organic molecules that you should be familiar with are the carbohydrate glucose and the nucleic acid ATP. Can you describe the role of ATP and glucose in biology? In addition to ionic and covalent bonds, a particularly important chemical interaction found in biological systems is the hydrogen bond. This weak interaction allows molecules to form specific, but reversible connections. Are you able to identify hydrogen bonds and describe their role in the transmission of genetic information? The polar nature of water makes it a good solvent for other polar compounds, like ATP or glucose. The ability of water to form hydrogen bonds with other water molecules has important biological consequences, such as reducing the density of ice such that it floats. Can you describe the other biologically significant properties of water? Another important aspect of biological solutions is pH, or the hydrogen ion concentration. You should be able to distinguish between an acid and a base and be able to discuss the importance of buffering in biological systems. Production note: Add self-rated competency and "My Response" questions. Review the following key terms from this module. Click on the term to view a definition and additional information. adhesion cohesion hydrophilic neutron solutions atomic mass covalent bonds ion nucleus solvent atomic number electron ionic bond proton surface tension aqueous solutions electronegativity isotopes solute valence electrons chemical bonds Hydrogen bonds matter   Atoms All living and nonliving things are composed of matter. Matter can be defined as anything that occupies space and has mass. The mass of an object is a measure of how much matter it has (that is, how much “stuff” is in it). Mass is not exactly the same as weight, but here on Earth we can measure and compare the masses of different objects by weighing them. When we explore matter scientifically, we find that it takes on many different structures as we zoom in at smaller and smaller scales. Everyday objects are mostly mixtures of molecules, which in turn are made up of atoms. Even air is a mixture of molecules. The atom is a good focal point for understanding matter; all matter is composed of atoms. Each atom belongs to one of 92 naturally occurring elements found in living and nonliving things. Elements are designated by either one or two letters. In biological systems, the major elements are Carbon (C), Nitrogen (N), Oxygen (O), Phosphorus (P), and Hydrogen (H). These 5 elements make up over 96% of your mass. All elements are composed of a single type of atom. Atoms are the smallest unit of an element that retains all of the properties of that element. Atoms are unimaginably small. Even within a single microscopic cell, there is room for not just billions, but trillions or even 100s of trillions of atoms. Amazingly, however, physicists now understand that most of the volume of an atom is empty space. In fact, atoms themselves are made of smaller subatomic particles. We cannot look at the parts of atoms with a microscope; they are simply too small. However, physicists have learned a great deal about atoms and subatomic particles through more indirect methods. One model of the atom that helps us understand chemistry better is shown in the diagram below. Diagram of atom Atoms contain protons and neutrons, which are found in the nucleus (center) of the atom. Atoms also contain electrons which are found outside the nucleus. This is a model of a lithium atom.   Atoms: The Basic Unit of Matter In this module, you will learn about the basic structure of the atom, the fundamental unit of matter. Living things are made up of atoms arranged in a complex and nonrandom way. This is one of the common features of all living organisms. The atom is the smallest level in the hierarchy of life that we will explore in this course. Understanding the properties of atoms allows us to predict and understand how atoms interact with one another to build molecules, such as hormones and DNA. In addition, an understanding of atoms allows us to predict how cells will react to different therapeutic drugs and toxins in the environment. The Atom: Parts and Structure All living and nonliving things are composed of matter. Matter can be defined as anything that occupies space and has mass. The mass of an object is a measure of how much matter it has (that is, how much “stuff” is in it). Mass is not exactly the same as weight, but here on Earth we can measure and compare the masses of different objects by weighing them. When we explore matter scientifically, we find that it takes on many different structures as we zoom in at smaller and smaller scales. Everyday objects are mostly mixtures of molecules, which in turn are made up of atoms. Even air is a mixture of molecules. The atom is a good focal point for understanding matter; all matter is composed of atoms. Atoms are unimaginably small. Even within a single microscopic cell, there is room for not just billions, but trillions or even hundreds of trillions of atoms. Amazingly, however, physicists now understand that most of the volume of an atom is actually made up of empty space. The atoms themselves are made of even smaller subatomic particles called protons, neutrons, and electrons. We cannot look at the parts of atoms with a microscope; they are simply too small. However, physicists have learned a great deal about atoms and subatomic particles through indirect methods. One model of the atom is shown in the diagram below. Diagram of an Atom Atoms contain protons and neutrons, which are found in the nucleus (center) of the atom. Atoms also contain electrons, which are found outside the nucleus. This is a model of a lithium atom. The number of protons, neutrons, and electrons are characteristics of an atom. Differences in the number of these subatomic particles are what distinguish one type of atom from another. Furthermore, each of these subatomic particles has an electrical charge that influences how one atom will interact with another. Notice in the diagram of an atom above that the protons have a plus sign (+) indicating their positive electrical charge. Electrons have a negative charge designated by the negative sign (-). Neutrons are electrically neutral, neither positive nor negatively charged. When the number of protons equals the number of electrons, then the atom is electrically neutral. If the number of protons differs from the number of electrons, then the atom has an electrical charge. An atom with more or less protons than electrons is called an ion. The electrical charge of an atom governs its behavior when it comes into contact with another atom; that is, how the atom reacts with other atoms. Atoms with unlike charges (+/-) will attract each other and connect, binding to form a molecule. Atoms with like charges repel each other. That means two atoms both positively charged (+/+) or both negatively charged (-/-) will resist or reject contact. The changes in the atomic composition of a substance that occur as a result of the attraction or repulsion of two or more atoms is called a chemical reaction. A chemical reactions produce one or more products resulting from a chemical change that transforms a set of molecules. All living and nonliving things are composed of matter. Matter can be defined as anything that occupies space and has mass. The mass of an object is a measure of how much matter it has (that is, how much “stuff” is in it). Mass is not exactly the same as weight, but here on Earth we can measure and compare the masses of different objects by weighing them. When we explore matter scientifically, we find that it takes on many different structures as we zoom in at smaller and smaller scales. Everyday objects are mostly mixtures of molecules, which in turn are made up of atoms. Even air is a mixture of molecules. The atom is a good focal point for understanding matter; all matter is composed of atoms. Atoms are unimaginably small. Even within a single microscopic cell, there is room for not just billions, but trillions or even hundreds of trillions of atoms. Amazingly, however, physicists now understand that most of the volume of an atom is actually made up of empty space. The atoms themselves are made of even smaller subatomic particles called protons, neutrons, and electrons. We cannot look at the parts of atoms with a microscope; they are simply too small. However, physicists have learned a great deal about atoms and subatomic particles through indirect methods. One model of the atom is shown in the diagram below. Diagram of an Atom Atoms contain protons and neutrons, which are found in the nucleus (center) of the atom. Atoms also contain electrons, which are found outside the nucleus. This is a model of a lithium atom. The number of protons, neutrons, and electrons are characteristics of an atom. Differences in the number of these subatomic particles are what distinguish one type of atom from another. Furthermore, each of these subatomic particles has an electrical charge that influences how one atom will interact with another. Notice in the diagram of an atom above that the protons have a plus sign (+) indicating their positive electrical charge. Electrons have a negative charge designated by the negative sign (-). Neutrons are electrically neutral, neither positive nor negatively charged. When the number of protons equals the number of electrons, then the atom is electrically neutral. If the number of protons differs from the number of electrons, then the atom has an electrical charge. An atom with more or less protons than electrons is called an ion. The electrical charge of an atom governs its behavior when it comes into contact with another atom; that is, how the atom reacts with other atoms. Atoms with unlike charges (+/-) will attract each other and connect, binding to form a molecule. Atoms with like charges repel each other. That means two atoms both positively charged (+/+) or both negatively charged (-/-) will resist or reject contact. The changes in the atomic composition of a substance that occur as a result of the attraction or repulsion of two or more atoms is called a chemical reaction. A chemical reactions produce one or more products resulting from a chemical change that transforms a set of molecules.   Subatomic Particles: Location and Charge Protons and neutrons reside in the nucleus (center) of the atom. Electrons are found outside of the nucleus, in zones that are called “shells.” The mass of an atom is called the “atomic mass”. When calculating atomic mass, we pay attention only to the protons and neutrons; the electrons have almost no mass. Each of the heavy particles (neutron, proton) weighs one atomic mass unit, so a Helium atom (two protons, two neutrons, and two electrons) weighs about four atomic mass units. Particle Charge Location in Atom RelativeMass proton positive nucleus 1.0 neutron no charge nucleus 1.0 electron negative orbit outside nucleus negligible In addition to location and mass, each subatomic particle has a property called “charge.” Charge can be “positive” or “negative.” Items with the same charge tend to repel each other and items with opposite charge tend to attract. Protons have a positive charge and neutrons have no charge, giving the nucleus a positive overall charge. Each electron has a negative charge that is equal in strength to the positive charge of a proton. Electrons and the protons of the nucleus attract each other, and this is the force that keeps the atom together, much like the force of gravity keeps the moon in orbit around Earth. Subatomic Particles By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Complete the activity above and then answer the following questions.   Subatomic Particles: Location and Charge Elements (atoms) are characterized by their atomic structure, which is made up of subatomic particles: protons, neutrons, and electrons. Protons and neutrons reside in the nucleus (center) of the atom and have a mass of one atomic mass unit (amu) each. Electrons are found outside of the nucleus, in zones that are called “shells.” Electrons have almost no mass. Diagram of atom Atoms contain protons and neutrons, which are found in the nucleus (center) of the atom. Atoms also contain electrons, which are found outside the nucleus. This is a model of a lithium atom. The mass of an atom is called the atomic mass. When calculating atomic mass, we pay attention only to the protons and neutrons; the electrons have almost no mass. The atomic mass is the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons. By summing the atomic mass of all the atoms in a molecule, one can estimate the molecular mass of the molecule, which is expressed in atomic mass units (called Daltons). Each of the heavy particles (neutron, proton) weighs one atomic mass unit, so a Helium (He) atom, which has two protons, two neutrons, and two electrons, weighs about four atomic mass units; that is, two protons plus two neutrons. Particle Charge Location in Atom Relative Mass proton positive nucleus 1.0 neutron no charge nucleus 1.0 electron negative orbit outside nucleus negligible In addition to location and mass, each subatomic particle has a property called “charge.” Charge can be “positive” or “negative.” Items with the same charge tend to repel each other and items with opposite charges tend to attract each other. Protons have a positive charge and neutrons have no charge, giving the nucleus a positive overall charge. Each electron has a negative charge that is equal in strength to the positive charge of a proton. Electrons and the protons of the nucleus attract each other, and this is the force that keeps the atom together, much like the force of gravity keeps the moon in orbit around Earth. Subatomic Particles By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Complete the activity above and then answer the following questions.   Atomic Number and Mass Atomic Number Atoms of different elements differ in their size, the reactions they participate in, and many other features. Yet there are some regular patterns that make it easier for us to categorize elements and understand why they behave as they do. The first key characteristic that truly identifies an element is its atomic number, the number of protons in each atom. The atomic number is constant and identical for all atoms of an element. For example, hydrogen always has only 1 proton and has an atomic number of 1. If an atom has 2 protons, it has an atomic number of 2 and it is helium. The periodic table of elements organizes all known elements into one table. As you will see, there is a logic to its organization. When you grasp the patterns in the periodic table, you will have an easier time understanding the chemical reactions that enable life. Periodic Table of Elements The periodic table of elements organizes elements based on atomic number (The number at the top of each square). Each element has a chemical symbol (an abbreviation) in the center of the square. Atomic Mass In addition to providing information about each element’s atomic number, most periodic tables also provide an atomic mass for each element. The atomic mass, also known as the atomic weight, (the mass of the nucleus) is the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons. A hydrogen atom that has 1 proton and 1 neutron would have an atomic mass of 2. A carbon atom which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons has an atomic mass of 12. Periodic Table of Elements The atomic masses or atomic weights can also be added to the periodic table of elements. The atomic mass of an element is written below the chemical symbol. Isotopes Notice that the atomic mass or atomic weight on the periodic table isn’t generally a whole number. For example, the atomic mass of Carbon is 12.01. How is that possible? Atoms can’t have fractions of protons or neutrons. The reason for this is that not all atoms of an element have the same number of neutrons. For example, carbon atoms always have 6 protons. But some carbon atoms have 6 neutrons, while others have 7 or even 8 neutrons. A carbon atom that has 6 neutrons would have an atomic mass of 12; a carbon with 8 neutrons would have an atomic mass of 14. Two atoms with the same atomic number but different atomic mass are called isotopes. For example, most atoms of carbon have atomic mass of 12. There are atoms of carbon with atomic mass of 13 and 14. These are isotopes of the carbon atom. The atomic mass given for Carbon (12.01) is an average value, taking into account all of Carbon’s different isotopes. Scientists have learned that isotopes have many useful properties. Some isotopes can be used to trace chemical reactions. If a special isotope is placed in fertilizer, for instance, that same isotope will later show up in the tissues of plants, then animals and decomposers as the nutrient moves through the food web. Some isotopes break down into others at a constant rate, allowing us to determine the age of fossils or artifacts. When an isotope is radioactive, this means that it emits some energy (radiation) when it breaks down to a different isotope. Radioactive isotopes can be used to visualize certain tissues for medical diagnosis. For example, radioactive iodine tends to concentrate in the thyroid gland. It emits radiation as it breaks down to another isotope of iodine. Special cameras can pick up this radiation and use it to create an image of the thyroid gland. This can help determine if the patient’s thyroid is normally active or to detect thyroid cancer. Atoms of different elements differ in their size, the reactions they participate in, and many other features. Yet there are some regular patterns that make it easier for us to categorize elements and understand why they behave as they do. The first key characteristic that truly identifies an element is its atomic number, the number of protons in each atom. The atomic number is constant and identical for all atoms of an element. For example, hydrogen always has only 1 proton and has an atomic number of 1. If an atom has 2 protons, it has an atomic number of 2 and it is helium. The periodic table of elements organizes all known elements into one table. As you will see, there is a logic to its organization. When you grasp the patterns in the periodic table, you will have an easier time understanding the chemical reactions that enable life. Periodic Table of Elements The periodic table of elements organizes elements based on atomic number (The number at the top of each square). Each element has a chemical symbol (an abbreviation) in the center of the square. In addition to providing information about each element’s atomic number, most periodic tables also provide an atomic mass for each element. The atomic mass, also known as the atomic weight, (the mass of the nucleus) is the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons. A hydrogen atom that has 1 proton and 1 neutron would have an atomic mass of 2. A carbon atom which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons has an atomic mass of 12. Periodic Table of Elements The atomic masses or atomic weights can also be added to the periodic table of elements. The atomic mass of an element is written below the chemical symbol. Notice that the atomic mass or atomic weight on the periodic table isn’t generally a whole number. For example, the atomic mass of Carbon is 12.01. How is that possible? Atoms can’t have fractions of protons or neutrons. The reason for this is that not all atoms of an element have the same number of neutrons. For example, carbon atoms always have 6 protons. But some carbon atoms have 6 neutrons, while others have 7 or even 8 neutrons. A carbon atom that has 6 neutrons would have an atomic mass of 12; a carbon with 8 neutrons would have an atomic mass of 14. Two atoms with the same atomic number but different atomic mass are called isotopes. For example, most atoms of carbon have atomic mass of 12. There are atoms of carbon with atomic mass of 13 and 14. These are isotopes of the carbon atom. The atomic mass given for Carbon (12.01) is an average value, taking into account all of Carbon’s different isotopes. Scientists have learned that isotopes have many useful properties. Some isotopes can be used to trace chemical reactions. If a special isotope is placed in fertilizer, for instance, that same isotope will later show up in the tissues of plants, then animals and decomposers as the nutrient moves through the food web. Some isotopes break down into others at a constant rate, allowing us to determine the age of fossils or artifacts. When an isotope is radioactive, this means that it emits some energy (radiation) when it breaks down to a different isotope. Radioactive isotopes can be used to visualize certain tissues for medical diagnosis. For example, radioactive iodine tends to concentrate in the thyroid gland. It emits radiation as it breaks down to another isotope of iodine. Special cameras can pick up this radiation and use it to create an image of the thyroid gland. This can help determine if the patient’s thyroid is normally active or to detect thyroid cancer.   The Periodic Chart Atomic Number Atoms of different elements have many different features, including different sizes and levels of reactivity. For example, sodium is an incredibly reactive element, especially when it combines with water. Lead, on the other hand, is relatively inert. Yet all elements share some regular patterns that make it easier for us to categorize them and understand why they behave as they do. The first key characteristic that truly identifies an element is its atomic number which is the number of protons in each atom. The atomic number is constant and identical for all atoms of an element. For example, hydrogen (H) atoms always have only one proton and have an atomic number of one. If an atom has two protons, it has an atomic number of two, and it is helium (He). For this reason, if you started with one hydrogen atom and added a proton, the original hydrogen would now be helium. If an atom has three protons in its nucleus, it is a lithium (Li) atom. Beryllium (Be) has four protons in its nucleus, and so on. Based on their atomic numbers, elements can be organized into a periodic table of elements like the one pictured below. The number at the top of each box in the table is the atomic number of the element. The periodic table organizes elements based on atomic number, which is the number at the top of each square. Each element has a chemical symbol, which is an abbreviation, shown in the center of each square. Atomic Mass In addition to providing information about each element’s atomic number, most periodic tables also provide an atomic mass for each element. The atomic mass, also known as the atomic weight, reports the mass of the nucleus. The mass of the nucleus is the sum of all protons and neutrons found in the nucleus. A hydrogen atom has one proton and would therefore have an atomic mass of one. A carbon atom, which has six protons and six neutrons, would have an atomic mass of 12. The units of atomic mass are Daltons, abbreviated Da, named after the British scientist John Dalton. One Da is equal to 1.66 x 10-27 kg, which is the mass of a single hydrogen (H) atom. Helium (He) has a mass of 4 Da or 6.67 x 10-27 kg. Because the mass of a single atom is so small, it is not a convenient unit for everyday use. Typically, the atomic mass is multiplied by the number of atoms in a mole to give the atomic weight in grams. A mole contains 6.022 x 1023 particles and is defined as the number of particles of carbon (C) that give an atomic weight of 12 grams. The atomic masses or atomic weights can also be added to the periodic table of elements. The atomic mass of an element is written below the chemical symbol. Isotopes Notice that the atomic mass or atomic weight on the periodic table is not generally a whole number. For example, the atomic mass of carbon (C) is 12.01. How is that possible? Atoms cannot have fractions of protons or neutrons. The reason for this is that not all atoms of an element have the same number of neutrons. For example, carbon atoms always have six protons. But some carbon atoms have six neutrons, while others have seven or even eight neutrons. A carbon atom that has six neutrons would have an atomic mass of 12; a carbon atom with eight neutrons would have an atomic mass of 14. Two atoms with the same atomic number but a different atomic mass are called isotopes. For example, most atoms of carbon have an atomic mass of 12. There are some atoms of carbon with an atomic mass of 13 (carbon 13), and some with 14 (carbon 14). These are isotopes of the carbon atom. Carbon 12 is the most abundant or prevalent isotopic form of carbon. Because carbon 12 is the most abundant form and taking into account all of carbon's different isotopes, the average value for the atomic mass for carbon is near 12: it's listed at 12.01. Scientists have learned that isotopes have many useful properties. Some isotopes can be used to trace chemical reactions. If a special isotope is placed in fertilizer, for instance, that same isotope will later show up in the tissues of plants, then animals and decomposers as the nutrient moves through the food web. Some isotopes break down into others at a constant rate, allowing us to determine the age of fossils or artifacts. When an isotope is radioactive, this means that it emits some energy (radiation) when it breaks down to a different isotope. Radioactive isotopes can be used to visualize certain tissues for medical diagnosis. For example, radioactive iodine tends to concentrate in the thyroid gland. It emits radiation as it breaks down to another isotope of iodine. Special cameras can pick up this radiation and use it to create an image of the thyroid gland. This can help determine if the patient’s thyroid is normally active or to detect thyroid cancer. Atoms of different elements have many different features, including different sizes and levels of reactivity. For example, sodium is an incredibly reactive element, especially when it combines with water. Lead, on the other hand, is relatively inert. Yet all elements share some regular patterns that make it easier for us to categorize them and understand why they behave as they do. The first key characteristic that truly identifies an element is its atomic number which is the number of protons in each atom. The atomic number is constant and identical for all atoms of an element. For example, hydrogen (H) atoms always have only one proton and have an atomic number of one. If an atom has two protons, it has an atomic number of two, and it is helium (He). For this reason, if you started with one hydrogen atom and added a proton, the original hydrogen would now be helium. If an atom has three protons in its nucleus, it is a lithium (Li) atom. Beryllium (Be) has four protons in its nucleus, and so on. Based on their atomic numbers, elements can be organized into a periodic table of elements like the one pictured below. The number at the top of each box in the table is the atomic number of the element. The periodic table organizes elements based on atomic number, which is the number at the top of each square. Each element has a chemical symbol, which is an abbreviation, shown in the center of each square. In addition to providing information about each element’s atomic number, most periodic tables also provide an atomic mass for each element. The atomic mass, also known as the atomic weight, reports the mass of the nucleus. The mass of the nucleus is the sum of all protons and neutrons found in the nucleus. A hydrogen atom has one proton and would therefore have an atomic mass of one. A carbon atom, which has six protons and six neutrons, would have an atomic mass of 12. The units of atomic mass are Daltons, abbreviated Da, named after the British scientist John Dalton. One Da is equal to 1.66 x 10-27 kg, which is the mass of a single hydrogen (H) atom. Helium (He) has a mass of 4 Da or 6.67 x 10-27 kg. Because the mass of a single atom is so small, it is not a convenient unit for everyday use. Typically, the atomic mass is multiplied by the number of atoms in a mole to give the atomic weight in grams. A mole contains 6.022 x 1023 particles and is defined as the number of particles of carbon (C) that give an atomic weight of 12 grams. The atomic masses or atomic weights can also be added to the periodic table of elements. The atomic mass of an element is written below the chemical symbol. Notice that the atomic mass or atomic weight on the periodic table is not generally a whole number. For example, the atomic mass of carbon (C) is 12.01. How is that possible? Atoms cannot have fractions of protons or neutrons. The reason for this is that not all atoms of an element have the same number of neutrons. For example, carbon atoms always have six protons. But some carbon atoms have six neutrons, while others have seven or even eight neutrons. A carbon atom that has six neutrons would have an atomic mass of 12; a carbon atom with eight neutrons would have an atomic mass of 14. Two atoms with the same atomic number but a different atomic mass are called isotopes. For example, most atoms of carbon have an atomic mass of 12. There are some atoms of carbon with an atomic mass of 13 (carbon 13), and some with 14 (carbon 14). These are isotopes of the carbon atom. Carbon 12 is the most abundant or prevalent isotopic form of carbon. Because carbon 12 is the most abundant form and taking into account all of carbon's different isotopes, the average value for the atomic mass for carbon is near 12: it's listed at 12.01. Scientists have learned that isotopes have many useful properties. Some isotopes can be used to trace chemical reactions. If a special isotope is placed in fertilizer, for instance, that same isotope will later show up in the tissues of plants, then animals and decomposers as the nutrient moves through the food web. Some isotopes break down into others at a constant rate, allowing us to determine the age of fossils or artifacts. When an isotope is radioactive, this means that it emits some energy (radiation) when it breaks down to a different isotope. Radioactive isotopes can be used to visualize certain tissues for medical diagnosis. For example, radioactive iodine tends to concentrate in the thyroid gland. It emits radiation as it breaks down to another isotope of iodine. Special cameras can pick up this radiation and use it to create an image of the thyroid gland. This can help determine if the patient’s thyroid is normally active or to detect thyroid cancer.   Electrons and Ions Electrons The electron is the reactive part of the atom. The number and location of electrons determines the interactions between atoms. As you recall, negatively charged electrons are pulled toward the positively charged nucleus. But electrons are kept in orbit by kinetic energy. Electrons that are close to the nucleus are less energetic than those electrons farther from the nucleus. Electrons reside in the space outside the nucleus in regions called shells. There are specific rules for filling up the shells of the atom. The first shell can hold two electrons; the second and third shells can hold up to eight electrons. Electrons fill up lower shells before moving to the next higher shell. The electrons that occupy the outermost shell are called valence electrons and are the electrons that are involved in chemical bonding. The chemical properties of an element depend mostly on the number of valence electrons. Valence Electron Shells The valence (outermost) electron shells are shown. Click on the button to show or hide the inner orbital shells. A key characteristic of atoms is that they are most stable when they have full outer electron shells. Helium (He) has a full outer shell with two electrons; directly below it in the periodic table is Neon. Neon (Ne) has an inner shell with two electrons and a full second shell with eight electrons. In fact, all of the elements in that column of the periodic table have full outer shells, are stable, and do not react with other elements. Electrons in Subshells By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Complete the activity above and then answer the following questions. Ions Opposite charges cancel each other out when they are close together. So what would you predict about the overall charge of an atom with an equal number of protons and electrons? That’s right — it is neutral. There is no charge; the atom will not be attracted to or repelled by charged objects. All atoms, in their elemental state, have equal numbers of protons and electrons, and for this reason they have no net charge. As you recall, an atom is most stable when it has a full outer shell. Some atoms achieve this endpoint by taking on extra electrons, or giving them up. When this happens, the atom becomes an ion and it takes on an overall charge. Some elements readily take on one or more extra electrons. They become anions that carry a negative charge, because they have more electrons than protons. On the periodic table, elements to the right (with the exception of the last column) are likely to take on extra electrons. For example, chlorine (Cl) has seven electrons in its valence shell. It is likely to take on one extra electron to fill its outer shell, becoming an anion with a charge of -1. The same can be said for other elements in the same column with chlorine. Conversely, elements on the left side of the periodic table tend to give up one or more electrons and become cations with a positive net charge. For example, sodium (Na) has one electron in its valence shell. It readily gives up this electron, becoming a cation with a charge of +1. The same can be said for lithium (Li) and other elements in this column. In the next section, we will explore how these electron transfers occur, and will look at some of the other ways that atoms interact to achieve stable, full outer electron shells. Electrons in Subshells The electron is the reactive part of the atom. The number and location of electrons determines the interactions between atoms. As you recall, negatively charged electrons are pulled toward the positively charged nucleus. But electrons are kept in orbit by kinetic energy. Electrons that are close to the nucleus are less energetic than those electrons farther from the nucleus. Electrons reside in the space outside the nucleus in regions called shells. There are specific rules for filling up the shells of the atom. The first shell can hold two electrons; the second and third shells can hold up to eight electrons. Electrons fill up lower shells before moving to the next higher shell. The electrons that occupy the outermost shell are called valence electrons and are the electrons that are involved in chemical bonding. The chemical properties of an element depend mostly on the number of valence electrons. Valence Electron Shells The valence (outermost) electron shells are shown. Click on the button to show or hide the inner orbital shells. A key characteristic of atoms is that they are most stable when they have full outer electron shells. Helium (He) has a full outer shell with two electrons; directly below it in the periodic table is Neon. Neon (Ne) has an inner shell with two electrons and a full second shell with eight electrons. In fact, all of the elements in that column of the periodic table have full outer shells, are stable, and do not react with other elements. Electrons in Subshells By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Complete the activity above and then answer the following questions. Opposite charges cancel each other out when they are close together. So what would you predict about the overall charge of an atom with an equal number of protons and electrons? That’s right — it is neutral. There is no charge; the atom will not be attracted to or repelled by charged objects. All atoms, in their elemental state, have equal numbers of protons and electrons, and for this reason they have no net charge. As you recall, an atom is most stable when it has a full outer shell. Some atoms achieve this endpoint by taking on extra electrons, or giving them up. When this happens, the atom becomes an ion and it takes on an overall charge. Some elements readily take on one or more extra electrons. They become anions that carry a negative charge, because they have more electrons than protons. On the periodic table, elements to the right (with the exception of the last column) are likely to take on extra electrons. For example, chlorine (Cl) has seven electrons in its valence shell. It is likely to take on one extra electron to fill its outer shell, becoming an anion with a charge of -1. The same can be said for other elements in the same column with chlorine. Conversely, elements on the left side of the periodic table tend to give up one or more electrons and become cations with a positive net charge. For example, sodium (Na) has one electron in its valence shell. It readily gives up this electron, becoming a cation with a charge of +1. The same can be said for lithium (Li) and other elements in this column. In the next section, we will explore how these electron transfers occur, and will look at some of the other ways that atoms interact to achieve stable, full outer electron shells. Electrons in Subshells   Chemical Bonds Atoms are the smallest units of an element that retain all the properties of the element. Atoms combine to form a larger and more complex entity called a molecule. Molecules are composed of two or more atoms held together by covalent bonds. Chemical bonds are attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. There are three types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: covalent bonds, ionic bonds, and hydrogen bonds. Covalent bonds are very stable, while ionic and hydrogen bonds are less stable. The relatively weaker ionic bonds and hydrogen bonds allow reversible interactions between different molecules in biological systems. Joining atoms together builds molecules that are more complex and larger than the individual atoms that compose them. The table below illustrates some similarities and differences among ionic, covalent and hydrogen bonds. Covalent bond Ionic bond Hydrogen bond strongest moderate strength weak occurs between atoms in the same molecule occurs between atoms in the same molecule (i.e., between the ions) Occurs between atoms in different molecules or parts of molecules Electron pairs are shared, creating a strong bond between atoms Electrons transfer from one atom to another, resulting in a moderately strong electrostatic attraction between oppositely charged ions Weak electrostatic attraction between areas of molecules with opposite partial charges The most stable situation for an atom is to have its outer shell completely filled with electrons. It is not easy to explain why this is true, but it is a rule of thumb that predicts how atoms will react with each other. Recall from the discussion on electrons, in the Atoms module, that the first electron shell is full with two electrons, and the second and third shells are full with eight electrons. Atoms tend to bond to other atoms in such a way that both atoms have filled outer shells as a result of the interaction.   Ionic Bonds Ionic bonds are the interactions between ions of opposite charges. Atoms form ions when they either take up or release electrons in order to fill their outer shell. Elements in the outer columns of the periodic table often react in this manner; elements like sodium tend to lose electrons and become cations (positively charged ions), whereas elements like chlorine tend to gain electrons and become anions (negatively charged ions). In fact, the reaction between sodium and chlorine is a great example of ionic bonding, and produces a compound you have in your kitchen — table salt. Chlorine (Cl) has an atomic number of 17, so it has 7 electrons in its outermost shell. Chlorine needs one more electron to have a full outer shell. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Sodium (Na) has an atomic number of 11, with one electron in its outermost shell. Sodium needs to get rid of an electron, and then it will have a full outer shell. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC By losing an electron, sodium becomes a cation with a positive charge (+1). By gaining an electron, chlorine becomes an anion with a negative charge (-1). Now each ion has a net charge and the two charges are opposite. The ions attract one another. The electrostatic interaction between the sodium ion and the chlorine ion is an ionic bond . Ionic Bonding   Covalent Bonds Instead of transferring their electrons completely, atoms may remain in very close contact and share electrons so that their outer shells are filled. In essence, a shared electron is counted “twice” and participates in a larger shell that joins two atoms. A single pair of shared electrons makes a single covalent bond. Atoms can share 2 pairs of electrons (in a double bond), or even 3 pairs of electron (in a triple bond). By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC This sharing of electrons is called a covalent bond. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Carbon, for example, has an atomic number of 6. The outer shell of carbon has 4 electrons. Carbon can share an electron with four other atoms. Hydrogen has an atomic number of 1. It has a single electron in its outermost shell, and can share this electron with one other atom. Carbon can form a covalent bond with four hydrogen atoms to form a molecule called methane, CH4 . In a methane molecule, carbon effectively has a “full” second shell (8 electrons) and each hydrogen has a “full” second shell (two electrons). Carbon and hydrogen react to form methane (CH4). Each hydrogen requires one covalent bond to fill its first electron shell. Each carbon requires 4 bonds to fill its second shell. Molecular Formulas When drawing a molecule on paper, covalent bonds are drawn as lines between atom. A single covalent bond is drawn as one line; a double covalent bond is drawn as 2 lines. CH4 would be drawn as: Reading a Molecular Formula These molecules can become much more complex. Carbon, in particular, can form long chains as each carbon forms a covalent bond with multiple other carbons. Also, note that in the diagram below bonds between O and H are not shown. When drawing molecular formulas it is important to make sure that each atom has a full outer shell. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Explore the activity above and then answer the following questions. Representations of Molecules Because carbon is such a common backbone for molecules, it is often drawn simply as corners on the diagram. This is another way to draw glucose: Carbons can form long chains, or they can form rings. Glucose can form a ring to become: The 6 carbons of glucose are numbered in this image to help you identify them. But, what happened to all the hydrogens attached to the carbons? It looks like some of these carbons are only forming 3 covalent bonds. The shorthand you are seeing here arose to keep these diagrams simple. It is understood that carbon must have 4 bonds, and there are often many hydrogen atoms in a molecule. So, any “missing” bond is actually a hydrogen atom. These conventions simplify diagrams of molecular structures. The cholesterol molecule shown here looks much cleaner than if we had to draw each carbon and hydrogen. When drawing a molecule on paper, covalent bonds are drawn as lines between atom. A single covalent bond is drawn as one line; a double covalent bond is drawn as 2 lines. CH4 would be drawn as: Reading a Molecular Formula These molecules can become much more complex. Carbon, in particular, can form long chains as each carbon forms a covalent bond with multiple other carbons. Also, note that in the diagram below bonds between O and H are not shown. When drawing molecular formulas it is important to make sure that each atom has a full outer shell. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Explore the activity above and then answer the following questions. Because carbon is such a common backbone for molecules, it is often drawn simply as corners on the diagram. This is another way to draw glucose: Carbons can form long chains, or they can form rings. Glucose can form a ring to become: The 6 carbons of glucose are numbered in this image to help you identify them. But, what happened to all the hydrogens attached to the carbons? It looks like some of these carbons are only forming 3 covalent bonds. The shorthand you are seeing here arose to keep these diagrams simple. It is understood that carbon must have 4 bonds, and there are often many hydrogen atoms in a molecule. So, any “missing” bond is actually a hydrogen atom. These conventions simplify diagrams of molecular structures. The cholesterol molecule shown here looks much cleaner than if we had to draw each carbon and hydrogen.   Covalent Bonds Instead of transferring their electrons completely, atoms may remain in very close contact and share electrons so that their outer shells are filled. In essence, a shared electron is counted “twice” and participates in a larger shell that joins the two atoms. A single pair of shared electrons makes a single covalent bond. Atoms can share two pairs of electrons (in a double bond), or even three pairs of electrons (in a triple bond). By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC This sharing of electrons is called a covalent bond. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC Carbon, for example, has an atomic number of 6 (see the figure below). The outer shell of carbon has 4 electrons. Carbon can share an electron with four other atoms. Hydrogen has an atomic number of 1. It has a single electron in its outermost shell, and can share this electron with one other atom. A carbon atom can form a covalent bond with four hydrogen atoms to form a molecule called methane, CH4 . In a methane molecule, carbon effectively has a “full” second shell (8 electrons) and each hydrogen has a “full” second shell (two electrons). Example 1: Carbon and hydrogen react to form methane (CH4). Each hydrogen requires one covalent bond to fill its first electron shell. Each carbon requires four bonds to fill its second shell. Exaample 2: Nitrogen and hydrogen form ammonium (NH3). The three unpaired electrons on the nitrogen atom (N) in ammonia, represented as single dots, form bonds with three hydrogen atoms. Nitrogen, another example, has an atomic number of 7 (see the figure above). The outer shell of carbon has 5 electrons. Nitrogen can share an electron with three other atoms. Hydrogen has an atomic number of 1. It has a single electron in its outermost shell, and can share this electron with one other atom. A nitrogen atom can form a covalent bond with three hydrogen atoms to form a molecule called ammonia, NH3 . In an ammonia molecule, nitrogen effectively has a “full” second shell (8 electrons) and each hydrogen has a “full” second shell (two electrons).   Molecules Molecular Formulas When two atoms are joined by a covalent bond, the new structure that forms is called a molecule. This is in contrast to the structure formed when two atoms are joined by an ionic bond, which is called an ionic compound. When drawing a molecule on paper, covalent bonds are often drawn as lines between atoms. A single covalent bond is drawn as one line; a double covalent bond is drawn as 2 lines. Each atom is represented by its element symbol. Thus a structural formula of methane (CH4) would be drawn like this: Notice that the carbon in methane has formed four covalent bonds with four hydrogen atoms. Because carbon has four electrons in its outer shell, it can always form four covalent bonds with other elements. The molecular mass or weight of a molecule is the sum of the individual atomic weights. As with atomic weights, it is convenient to use the weight of a mole of molecules. For example, the molecular mass of a single methane molecule is 16 Da (12 from the carbon, 4 from the hydrogens). The weight of a mole of methane molecules is 16 grams. Interpreting a Molecular Formula Molecules can be much more complex than methane. Carbon can form long chains as each carbon forms covalent bonds with multiple other carbons. When drawing molecules, it is important to make sure that each atom has a full outer shell. In the case of carbon, this simply means that carbon will form four covalent bonds. Examine the activity below. Remember that the lines represent covalent bonds between atoms, but also note that the bonds between O and H are not shown. This simplifies the drawing and makes important structures easier to see. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Explore the activity above and then answer the following questions. Drawing Molecules Structural Formulas: There are many different ways to draw molecules. For example, look at the glucose molecule shown on the right in a structural formula. Notice that the structure consists of a carbon backbone running down the middle of the molecule. Each carbon has formed a covalent bond with four other atoms. (The first carbon actually formed two bonds with the oxygen atom; this is called a double bond. This carbon still formed a total of four bonds, even though two of the bonds are with the same oxygen atom.) Skeletal Formulas: Chains of carbon atoms are very common in carbon-based molecules. Sometimes such molecules are drawn using skeletal formulas, also known as shorthand formulas. In these diagrams, the carbon atom, typically indicated with the letter “C,” is not shown. Instead, each C atom is drawn simply as a corner on the diagram. Below are skeletal diagrams of glucose. In these examples, the carbons are located at each angle in the diagram. Glucose Molecule: Linear Skeletal Diagram Carbon atoms are indicated at each corner or angle, as highlighted in Figure 1B with red circles. Glucose Molecule: Ring Structure Diagram The six carbons of glucose are numbered in the ring structure and highlighted in Figure 2B with red circles. You may have another question about the skeletal diagrams: what happened to the hydrogen atoms attached to the carbon atoms? It looks like some of the carbons only have two or three covalent bonds! The skeletal diagrams are often drawn to be simple, not to show every atom. It is understood that carbon must have four bonds, and in any carbon-based molecule there are often one, two, or even three hydrogen atoms bonded to each carbon. To clean up the diagram, the H atoms are not drawn. It is assumed you will understand that any “missing” bond is actually provided by a hydrogen atom. These conventions simplify diagrams of molecular structures. The cholesterol molecule, shown below, looks much cleaner than if we had to draw each carbon and hydrogen atom. You may also notice that this image has different-looking bonds. These solid and striped triangle-shaped bonds describe the three-dimensional shape of the molecule. When two atoms are joined by a covalent bond, the new structure that forms is called a molecule. This is in contrast to the structure formed when two atoms are joined by an ionic bond, which is called an ionic compound. When drawing a molecule on paper, covalent bonds are often drawn as lines between atoms. A single covalent bond is drawn as one line; a double covalent bond is drawn as 2 lines. Each atom is represented by its element symbol. Thus a structural formula of methane (CH4) would be drawn like this: Notice that the carbon in methane has formed four covalent bonds with four hydrogen atoms. Because carbon has four electrons in its outer shell, it can always form four covalent bonds with other elements. The molecular mass or weight of a molecule is the sum of the individual atomic weights. As with atomic weights, it is convenient to use the weight of a mole of molecules. For example, the molecular mass of a single methane molecule is 16 Da (12 from the carbon, 4 from the hydrogens). The weight of a mole of methane molecules is 16 grams. Interpreting a Molecular Formula Molecules can be much more complex than methane. Carbon can form long chains as each carbon forms covalent bonds with multiple other carbons. When drawing molecules, it is important to make sure that each atom has a full outer shell. In the case of carbon, this simply means that carbon will form four covalent bonds. Examine the activity below. Remember that the lines represent covalent bonds between atoms, but also note that the bonds between O and H are not shown. This simplifies the drawing and makes important structures easier to see. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Explore the activity above and then answer the following questions. Structural Formulas: There are many different ways to draw molecules. For example, look at the glucose molecule shown on the right in a structural formula. Notice that the structure consists of a carbon backbone running down the middle of the molecule. Each carbon has formed a covalent bond with four other atoms. (The first carbon actually formed two bonds with the oxygen atom; this is called a double bond. This carbon still formed a total of four bonds, even though two of the bonds are with the same oxygen atom.) Skeletal Formulas: Chains of carbon atoms are very common in carbon-based molecules. Sometimes such molecules are drawn using skeletal formulas, also known as shorthand formulas. In these diagrams, the carbon atom, typically indicated with the letter “C,” is not shown. Instead, each C atom is drawn simply as a corner on the diagram. Below are skeletal diagrams of glucose. In these examples, the carbons are located at each angle in the diagram. Glucose Molecule: Linear Skeletal Diagram Carbon atoms are indicated at each corner or angle, as highlighted in Figure 1B with red circles. Glucose Molecule: Ring Structure Diagram The six carbons of glucose are numbered in the ring structure and highlighted in Figure 2B with red circles. You may have another question about the skeletal diagrams: what happened to the hydrogen atoms attached to the carbon atoms? It looks like some of the carbons only have two or three covalent bonds! The skeletal diagrams are often drawn to be simple, not to show every atom. It is understood that carbon must have four bonds, and in any carbon-based molecule there are often one, two, or even three hydrogen atoms bonded to each carbon. To clean up the diagram, the H atoms are not drawn. It is assumed you will understand that any “missing” bond is actually provided by a hydrogen atom. These conventions simplify diagrams of molecular structures. The cholesterol molecule, shown below, looks much cleaner than if we had to draw each carbon and hydrogen atom. You may also notice that this image has different-looking bonds. These solid and striped triangle-shaped bonds describe the three-dimensional shape of the molecule.   Molecules Molecular Formulas When two atoms are joined by a covalent bond, the new structure that forms is called a molecule. This is in contrast to the structure formed when two atoms are joined by an ionic bond, which is called an ionic compound. When drawing a molecule on paper, covalent bonds are often drawn as lines between atoms. A single covalent bond is drawn as one line; a double covalent bond is drawn as 2 lines. Each atom is represented by its element symbol. Thus a structural formula of methane (CH4) would be drawn like this: Notice that the carbon in methane has formed four covalent bonds with four hydrogen atoms. Because carbon has four electrons in its outer shell, it can always form four covalent bonds with other elements. The molecular mass or weight of a molecule is the sum of the individual atomic weights. As with atomic weights it is convenient to use the weight of a mole of molecules. For example, the molecular mass of single methane molecule is 16 Da (12 from the carbon, 4 from the hydrogens). The weight of a mole of methane molecules is 16 grams Interpreting a Molecular Formula Molecules can be much more complex than methane. Carbon can form long chains as each carbon forms covalent bonds with multiple other carbons. When drawing molecules, it is important to make sure that each atom has a full outer shell. In the case of carbon, this simply means that carbon will form four covalent bonds. Examine the activity below. Remember that the lines represent covalent bonds between atoms, but also note that the bonds between O and H are not shown. This simplifies the drawing and makes important structures easier to see. Explore this interactive visual, then answer the questions below. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Explore the activity above and then answer the following questions. Drawing Molecules Structural Formulas: There are many different ways to draw molecules. For example, look at the glucose molecule shown on the right in a structural formula. Notice that the structure consists of a carbon backbone running down the middle of the molecule. Each carbon has formed a covalent bond with four other atoms. (The first carbon actually formed two bonds with the oxygen atom; this is called a double bond. This carbon still formed a total of four bonds, even though two of the bonds are with the oxygen atom.) Skeletal Formulas: Chains of carbon atoms are very common in carbon-based molecules. Sometimes such molecules are drawn using skeletal formulas, also known as shorthand formulas. In these diagrams, the carbon atom, typically indicated with the letter “C” , is not shown. Instead, each C atom is drawn simply as a corner on the diagram. Below are a skeletal diagrams of glucose. In these examples, the carbons are located at each angle in the diagram. Skeletal Diagram Glucose illustrated as a linear molecule. Click here to highlight location of the carbons. Ring Structure The six carbons of glucose are numbered in the above image. Click here to highlight location of the carbons. Glucose can be a linear molecule as shown above on the left or a ring structure depicted on the right. You may have another question about the skeletal diagrams: what happened to the hydrogen atoms attached to the carbon atoms? It looks like some of the carbons only have 2 or 3 covalent bonds! The skeletal diagrams are often drawn to be simple, not to show every atom. It is understood that carbon must have 4 bonds, and in any carbon-based molecule there are often 1, 2, or even 3 hydrogen atoms bonded to each carbon. To clean up the diagram, the H atoms are not drawn. It is assumed you will understand that any “missing” bond is actually provided by a hydrogen atom. These conventions simplify diagrams of molecular structures. The cholesterol molecule, shown below, looks much cleaner than if we had to draw each carbon and hydrogen atom. You may also notice that this image has different looking bonds. These solid and striped triangle-shaped bonds describe the 3 dimensional shape of the molecule. When two atoms are joined by a covalent bond, the new structure that forms is called a molecule. This is in contrast to the structure formed when two atoms are joined by an ionic bond, which is called an ionic compound. When drawing a molecule on paper, covalent bonds are often drawn as lines between atoms. A single covalent bond is drawn as one line; a double covalent bond is drawn as 2 lines. Each atom is represented by its element symbol. Thus a structural formula of methane (CH4) would be drawn like this: Notice that the carbon in methane has formed four covalent bonds with four hydrogen atoms. Because carbon has four electrons in its outer shell, it can always form four covalent bonds with other elements. The molecular mass or weight of a molecule is the sum of the individual atomic weights. As with atomic weights it is convenient to use the weight of a mole of molecules. For example, the molecular mass of single methane molecule is 16 Da (12 from the carbon, 4 from the hydrogens). The weight of a mole of methane molecules is 16 grams Interpreting a Molecular Formula Molecules can be much more complex than methane. Carbon can form long chains as each carbon forms covalent bonds with multiple other carbons. When drawing molecules, it is important to make sure that each atom has a full outer shell. In the case of carbon, this simply means that carbon will form four covalent bonds. Examine the activity below. Remember that the lines represent covalent bonds between atoms, but also note that the bonds between O and H are not shown. This simplifies the drawing and makes important structures easier to see. Explore this interactive visual, then answer the questions below. By University of Maryland University College CC-BY-NC. Explore the activity above and then answer the following questions. Structural Formulas: There are many different ways to draw molecules. For example, look at the glucose molecule shown on the right in a structural formula. Notice that the structure consists of a carbon backbone running down the middle of the molecule. Each carbon has formed a covalent bond with four other atoms. (The first carbon actually formed two bonds with the oxygen atom; this is called a double bond. This carbon still formed a total of four bonds, even though two of the bonds are with the oxygen atom.) Skeletal Formulas: Chains of carbon atoms are very common in carbon-based molecules. Sometimes such molecules are drawn using skeletal formulas, also known as shorthand formulas. In these diagrams, the carbon atom, typically indicated with the letter “C” , is not shown. Instead, each C atom is drawn simply as a corner on the diagram. Below are a skeletal diagrams of glucose. In these examples, the carbons are located at each angle in the diagram. Skeletal Diagram Glucose illustrated as a linear molecule. Click here to highlight location of the carbons. Ring Structure The six carbons of glucose are numbered in the above image. Click here to highlight location of the carbons. Glucose can be a linear molecule as shown above on the left or a ring structure depicted on the right. You may have another question about the skeletal diagrams: what happened to the hydrogen atoms attached to the carbon atoms? It looks like some of the carbons only have 2 or 3 covalent bonds! The skeletal diagrams are often drawn to be simple, not to show every atom. It is understood that carbon must have 4 bonds, and in any carbon-based molecule there are often 1, 2, or even 3 hydrogen atoms bonded to each carbon. To clean up the diagram, the H atoms are not drawn. It is assumed you will understand that any “missing” bond is actually provided by a hydrogen atom. These conventions simplify diagrams of molecular structures. The cholesterol molecule, shown below, looks much cleaner than if we had to draw each carbon and hydrogen atom. You may also notice that this image has different looking bonds. These solid and striped triangle-shaped bonds describe the 3 dimensional shape of the molecule.   Hydrogen Bonds Throughout this biology course, you will be studying about many different molecules. Some of these molecules exhibit a unique attraction between them, which is referred to as a hydrogen bond. Hydrogen bonding occurs in molecules in which a nitrogen or oxygen atom is bonded to a hydrogen atom. In this situation, the nitrogen or oxygen atom of one molecule is attracted to the hydrogen atom in a neighboring molecule. Hydrogen bonding has a significant effect on the properties of molecules. For example, the structure of the DNA molecule is in part held together by hydrogen bonds. Hydrogen bonding is the attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen atom that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. However, only hydrogens covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Water and Hydrogen Bonds The water molecule is a very important example of a molecule with hydrogen bonds. It is the hydrogen bonding of the water molecules that give water many of its unique and life-sustaining properties. The water molecule consists of two hydrogen atoms covalently bonded to a oxygen atom. Oxygen is more electronegative than hydrogen. This means that oxygen has a greater affinity for the electron pair than the hydrogen does. Because the electrons are more strongly attracted to the oxygen, the electron pair is unevenly distributed between the oxygen and each hydrogen atom . As a result, the oxygen becomes slightly negative and each hydrogen atom is slightly positive. A similar situation occurs whenever hydrogen is bonded to elements that strongly attract electrons. Oxygen and nitrogen are the two such elements that are frequently bonded to hydrogen in biological molecules. δ- and δ+ represent a partial - and partial + charge respectively. Due to the uneven charge distribution, the bond between oxygen and hydrogen is a polar covalent bond. In water, the partially positive hydrogen is attracted to the partially negative oxygen of another water molecule; this attraction is called a hydrogen bond. Hydrogen bonds are responsible for many of the unique properties of water. Animation demonstrating hydrogen bonding in water. Adjust the volume on your computer and click the play button. Hydrogen bonding can occur whenever hydrogen is covalently bound to strongly electronegative elements like oxygen or nitrogen. These hydrogen atoms carry a positive partial charge and can be attracted to negative partial charges on other molecules, or on different parts of the same molecule. Hydrogen bonds are important to the structure and function of many large biological molecules. DNA, for example, occurs as a double-stranded molecule. The two strands are loosely connected by hydrogen bonds. The water molecule is a very important example of a molecule with hydrogen bonds. It is the hydrogen bonding of the water molecules that give water many of its unique and life-sustaining properties. The water molecule consists of two hydrogen atoms covalently bonded to a oxygen atom. Oxygen is more electronegative than hydrogen. This means that oxygen has a greater affinity for the electron pair than the hydrogen does. Because the electrons are more strongly attracted to the oxygen, the electron pair is unevenly distributed between the oxygen and each hydrogen atom . As a result, the oxygen becomes slightly negative and each hydrogen atom is slightly positive. A similar situation occurs whenever hydrogen is bonded to elements that strongly attract electrons. Oxygen and nitrogen are the two such elements that are frequently bonded to hydrogen in biological molecules. δ- and δ+ represent a partial - and partial + charge respectively. Due to the uneven charge distribution, the bond between oxygen and hydrogen is a polar covalent bond. In water, the partially positive hydrogen is attracted to the partially negative oxygen of another water molecule; this attraction is called a hydrogen bond. Hydrogen bonds are responsible for many of the unique properties of water. Animation demonstrating hydrogen bonding in water. Adjust the volume on your computer and click the play button.   Hydrogen Bonds Throughout this course, you will be studying many different molecules. Many of the important molecules of life, like DNA, proteins, and even ordinary water, share a key characteristic: they all form hydrogen bonds. Hydrogen bonds are not like the covalent bonds you just learned about. They do not join atoms into molecules. Instead, they are the attraction of an electronegative atom to a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of the hydrogen with a partial positive charge to the electronegative atom with a partial negative charge. Only hydrogen covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Hydrogen bonding has a significant effect on the properties of molecules. For example, the structure of the DNA molecule is in part held together by hydrogen bonds. Hydrogen bonds also create coils and other structures within the complex protein molecules that are essential to life’s diversity. Finally, water behaves the way it does because of the hydrogen bonds that attract water molecules to each other. Water The water molecule is a very important example of a molecule that can form hydrogen bonds. It is the hydrogen bonding of the water molecules that gives water many of its unique and life-sustaining properties. One water molecule consists of two hydrogen atoms covalently bonded to a oxygen atom. Recall that in a covalent bond, the electrons are shared between two atoms. However, the two atoms don’t necessarily share the electrons equally. Some atoms are more likely to draw the shared electrons closer to themselves. These atoms have a high electronegativity. Both oxygen and nitrogen are molecules with a high electronegativity. In a water molecule, oxygen is more electronegative than hydrogen. This means that oxygen has a greater affinity or attraction for the shared electron pair than hydrogen does. Because of this, the electrons tend to spend more time close to the oxygen atom and they spend less time close to the hydrogen atom. As a result, the oxygen becomes slightly negative and each hydrogen atom develops a slightly positive charge. Whenever two atoms with different electronegativities form a covalent bond, we say that the bond between the atoms is polar, with each atom carrying a partial charge. Oxygen and nitrogen are the two highly electronegative elements that are often bonded to hydrogen in biological molecules. O-H and N-H bonds are strongly polar, and this sets the stage for hydrogen bonding. δ- and δ+ represent a partial negative and partial positive charge, respectively. Hydrogen bonding is the attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. However, only hydrogen covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. In water, the partially positive hydrogen atoms are attracted to the partially negative oxygen atoms of neighboring water molecules. Hydrogen bonds are responsible for many of the unique properties of water. We’ll explore this in more detail in the next module. Watch the following animation that illustrates hydrogen bonding. Animation demonstrating hydrogen bonding in water. Adjust the volume on your computer and click the play button. The water molecule is a very important example of a molecule that can form hydrogen bonds. It is the hydrogen bonding of the water molecules that gives water many of its unique and life-sustaining properties. One water molecule consists of two hydrogen atoms covalently bonded to a oxygen atom. Recall that in a covalent bond, the electrons are shared between two atoms. However, the two atoms don’t necessarily share the electrons equally. Some atoms are more likely to draw the shared electrons closer to themselves. These atoms have a high electronegativity. Both oxygen and nitrogen are molecules with a high electronegativity. In a water molecule, oxygen is more electronegative than hydrogen. This means that oxygen has a greater affinity or attraction for the shared electron pair than hydrogen does. Because of this, the electrons tend to spend more time close to the oxygen atom and they spend less time close to the hydrogen atom. As a result, the oxygen becomes slightly negative and each hydrogen atom develops a slightly positive charge. Whenever two atoms with different electronegativities form a covalent bond, we say that the bond between the atoms is polar, with each atom carrying a partial charge. Oxygen and nitrogen are the two highly electronegative elements that are often bonded to hydrogen in biological molecules. O-H and N-H bonds are strongly polar, and this sets the stage for hydrogen bonding. δ- and δ+ represent a partial negative and partial positive charge, respectively. Hydrogen bonding is the attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. However, only hydrogen covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. In water, the partially positive hydrogen atoms are attracted to the partially negative oxygen atoms of neighboring water molecules. Hydrogen bonds are responsible for many of the unique properties of water. We’ll explore this in more detail in the next module. Watch the following animation that illustrates hydrogen bonding. Animation demonstrating hydrogen bonding in water. Adjust the volume on your computer and click the play button.   Electronegativity Recall that in a covalent bond, the electrons are shared between two atoms. However, the two atoms don’t necessarily share the electrons equally. Some atoms are more likely to draw the shared electrons closer to themselves. Atoms have a high electronegativity if they tend to draw the electrons towards them. Electronegativity increases as one moves from the left to the right across the periodic table. Hydrogen is moderately electronegative, with a value of 2.1, carbon is somewhat more electronegative, with a value of 2.5, and fluorine is the most electronegative atom, with a value of 4.0. Electronegativities of Biologically Important Atoms Image modified from Chart of Each Element's Electronegativity, UC Davis ChemWiki by University of California. The degree of unequal electron sharing depends on the difference in electronegativity of the atoms involved in the bond. For example, in carbon-carbon bonds, both atoms have the same electronegativity, so the electrons are equally shared between the two carbons. In contrast, a carbon-oxygen bond involves two atoms that have different electronegativities. The less electronegative atom (carbon) will donate part of its electrons to the more electronegative atom (oxygen), resulting in a partial positive charge on the carbon (indicated by δ+) and a partial negative charge on the oxygen (indicated by δ-). The size of the partial charges is proportional to the difference between the electronegativities of the two bonded atoms. Bonds in which electrons are unequally shared between the atoms are called polar covalent bonds.   Elements You’ve already seen that all atoms have a few structural characteristics in common. All atoms have a nucleus, made up of protons and neutrons, and are surrounded by electrons. However, you are probably also aware that not all atoms are the same. In fact, atoms come in different types, called elements. There are 92 different kinds of elements that are naturally occurring on Earth. Each element has its own set of properties that are unique to atoms of its kind. Elements are designated by either one- or two-letter abbreviations and they can be organized into a chart called the periodic table. We will take a closer look at the periodic table (also called the periodic chart) later in this unit. The periodic chart is a table that lists all the elements known to science. The elements are numbered from 1 - 118. How do you think the elements are organized? Atoms differ from one another in their number of protons, electrons, neutrons, and chemical properties which affect the ability of atoms to combine to form substances. An atom is the smallest unit of an element that retains all of the properties of that element. So, an element is a substance that is composed of a single type of atom. But, how do you know what kind of atom you have? It is easy! Count the number of protons in the atom’s nucleus, and that will tell you what kind of element that atom is. The number of protons in an atom is denoted by the atomic number displayed for each element in the periodic table. All hydrogen atoms contain one proton and one electron. In contrast, all carbon atoms contain six protons, six electrons, and six neutrons. It is the number of protons found in the nucleus of the atom that determines the kind of element designated by the atom. In biological systems, the major elements are carbon (C), hydrogen (H), nitrogen (N), oxygen (O), phosphorus (P), and sulfur (S). These elements represent more than 95% of the mass of a cell. Carbon is a major component of nearly all biological molecules. Some elements are found in relatively small amounts and are called “trace elements.” Examples include sodium (Na), potassium (K), chlorine (Cl), manganese (Mn), and Zinc (Zn). Throughout the course you will see how atoms of these elements are very important to the functioning of a cell.   Water: A Molecule Essential for Life Have you ever wondered why scientists spend time looking for water on other planets? It is because, at least here on Earth, water is essential to life. Evidence of water on Mars, and some of the moons of Saturn and Jupiter, increases the odds that life may exist there. Here on Earth, water is one of the most abundant molecules. The water content of our bodies and our cells ranges from 70 to 95 percent. All of life’s chemical reactions take place in watery fluid. Without water, life as we know it simply would not exist. There are four properties of water that make it such a unique and important molecule: Water is an excellent solvent and can dissolve a wide range of substances. Water is cohesive. Water’s temperature tends to remain stable. Solid water (ice) is less dense than liquid water. These properties of water are due to the hydrogen bonds formed between water molecules. Hydrogen bonds are discussed in the Chemical Bonds module.   Water as a Solvent Solutions are homogeneous mixtures. This means that you can sample any part of the solution and the composition of the solution will be the same. Solutions have two components: solvent: the component of the solution in the greatest quantity. solutes: the component(s) present in lower quantities. If you add some salt to water, you are making a solution. Water is the solvent and the salt is the solute. Solutions can have more than one solute. If you add sugar to your salt solution, both sugar and salt would be the solutes of the solution. Solutions in which water is the solvent are called aqueous solutions. The inside of our cells and our body fluids are examples of aqueous solutions. When a solute is added to a solvent and a solution is formed; the solute is described as “dissolving” in the solvent. Substances that will dissolve in water are hydrophilic or water-loving. What kinds of molecules are hydrophilic? Ionic substances like table salt (NaCl) are hydrophilic. They split into positive and negative ions and dissolve in water. Polar water molecules surround the charged particles, breaking them away and pulling them into the fluid. Polar molecules also are hydrophilic. Polar water molecules readily surround and dissolve polar molecules or molecules with polar functional groups. Examples include sugars and alcohols, which have hydroxyl groups. Molecules that do not dissolve in water are hydrophobic (from the Greek word meaning water-fearing or water-hating). Nonpolar molecules are hydrophobic. Examples include hydrocarbons and fatty acids with their abundant nonpolar C-H bonds. Have you ever tried to mix water and oil? Oils and fats are nonpolar and will not form a solution with water. Oil Spill in San Francisco Bay About 58,000 gallons of oil spilled from a South Korea-bound container ship when it struck a tower supporting the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge in dense fog on 11/07/07. Brocken Inaglory, Nov, 2007; Wikimedia Commons. Hydrophilic: Water Soluble You can often determine whether a substance is hydrophobic or hydrophilic simply by using common knowledge. Oils and oil-like substances will probably be hydrophobic. But even if you don’t know anything about a substance except for its chemical structure, you can still figure out whether it is hydrophobic or hydrophilic. When looking at a substance’s chemical structure, the key is to figure out whether or not there are any parts of the molecule that “look like water.” If there are, then the unknown chemical will probably dissolve in water. Go ahead and try it out. Next we will examine hydrophobic molecules more closely. Substances with hydrophobic molecules will not dissolve in water and instead will tend to separate from water.   Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Molecules Some molecules are hydrophobic, which literally means fear (phobia) of water (hydro). These molecules do not like to dissolve in water. When hydrophobic molecules are mixed with water, they will tend to separate into distinct phases (or layers), one containing water and the other containing the hydrophobic molecules. This makes it very difficult, for example, to “wash” oil off of waterfowl after an oil spill. Birds killed as a result of oil from the Exxon Valdez spill. Photo in the public domain courtesy of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Council. Things composed of hydrophobic molecules generally include oils, fats, and greasy substances. Materials containing hydrophobic substances are often used for removal of oil from water and management of oil spills. Other molecules are hydrophilic, which means love (philic) of water, and readily dissolve in water. Chemical Structures Now that you know some common hydrophobic and hydrophilic molecules, let’s look at their structures to understand why they interact with water in different ways. The additional atoms that are found only on glucose are electronegative, meaning that they will withdraw some of the electrons from the atoms that form bonds with them. The electronegative atom will have a slight negative charge, and the atom that it is bonded to it will have a slight positive charge. The unequal distribution of electrons makes the bond a polar bond. Water is a polar molecule. The electronegative oxygen draws the electron from hydrogen toward it, causing the hydrogens to have slight positive charge and the oxygen to have a slight negative charge. Glucose Interaction with Water Lets consider why the polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules interact favorably with water. Recall that water has the molecular structure of H-O-H, so it also has polar bonds. The interaction between a polar bond on water and polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules is given a special name — the hydrogen bond, because it involves a hydrogen that forms a bridge between the two molecules. Hydrogen bonds are fairly stable, so quite a bit of energy is released when they are formed. The release of energy helps hydrophilic molecules like glucose dissolve in water. Since hydrophilic molecules contain polar bonds, they are often referred to as polar molecules. Nonpolar Molecules Hydrophobic molecules lack the electronegative atoms that are required to generate a polar bond. Thus, hydrophobic molecules are also referred to as nonpolar. The fact that nonpolar molecules cannot form hydrogen bonds in one reason why they have low solubility in water; however, there is another far more important force that drives nonpolar molecules from water, called the hydrophobic effect. Hydrophobic Effect When a nonpolar molecule is placed in water, it becomes completely surrounded by water molecules. The water molecules cannot form hydrogen bonds with the nonpolar molecules. However, they do form hydrogen bonds with the other water molecules that surround the nonpolar molecule, forming a layer of hydrogen-bonded water molecules that cover, or form a cage, around the nonpolar molecule. A representation of these water molecules organized around butane that has been added to water is shown in the following three-dimensional chemical structure. Production note: replace still image with dissolved-butane Jmol. The dissolved butane is highlighted in yellow. It is surrounded by a cage of water molecules, forming hydrogen bonds (purple) with each other (pdb file modified from Udachin et al., J. Chem. Phys, 134, 121104 (2011). The formation of the water cage is unfavorable, because it requires water molecules to become ordered. Ordering anything requires energy, whether it is a cage of water molecules surrounding a nonpolar molecule, or your messy dorm room. The energy cost of ordering water molecules around nonpolar compounds is so high that they are forced out of the water, leading to a separation of phases; oil and water don’t mix because of the hydrophobic effect. Most biological molecules contain both polar and nonpolar regions. Their behavior in water depends on the relative number and type of polar groups versus nonpolar groups. For example, consider this series of simple alcohols. Amphipathic Molecules Molecules that contain a very polar part and a very nonpolar part are called amphipathic. The polar part interacts with water, forming strong interactions, while the nonpolar part doesn’t interact with water because of the hydrophobic effect. In order to accomplish this, amphipathic molecules usually undergo spontaneous self-assembly into structures that expose the polar part to water and keep the nonpolar section away from water. One example of amphipathic molecules are fatty acids. Fatty Acids Molecule The carboxylate group (COOH) on the left interacts strongly with water, while the remaining part of the molecule is very hydrophobic and is forced away from water. Fatty acids form structures in solution called micelles. These spherical structures have the hydrophilic part exposed to water on the surface of the sphere and bury the hydrophobic part in the center of the sphere. Schematic of a spherical micelle. You might be wondering why triglycerides are not amphipathic, given that they are similar to fatty acids, with a polar group of atoms and a nonpolar group. The reason is that the polar region of triglycerides interacts weakly with water because there is no free -OH group. Now that you know some common hydrophobic and hydrophilic molecules, let’s look at their structures to understand why they interact with water in different ways. The additional atoms that are found only on glucose are electronegative, meaning that they will withdraw some of the electrons from the atoms that form bonds with them. The electronegative atom will have a slight negative charge, and the atom that it is bonded to it will have a slight positive charge. The unequal distribution of electrons makes the bond a polar bond. Water is a polar molecule. The electronegative oxygen draws the electron from hydrogen toward it, causing the hydrogens to have slight positive charge and the oxygen to have a slight negative charge. Glucose Interaction with Water Lets consider why the polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules interact favorably with water. Recall that water has the molecular structure of H-O-H, so it also has polar bonds. The interaction between a polar bond on water and polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules is given a special name — the hydrogen bond, because it involves a hydrogen that forms a bridge between the two molecules. Hydrogen bonds are fairly stable, so quite a bit of energy is released when they are formed. The release of energy helps hydrophilic molecules like glucose dissolve in water. Since hydrophilic molecules contain polar bonds, they are often referred to as polar molecules. Hydrophobic molecules lack the electronegative atoms that are required to generate a polar bond. Thus, hydrophobic molecules are also referred to as nonpolar. The fact that nonpolar molecules cannot form hydrogen bonds in one reason why they have low solubility in water; however, there is another far more important force that drives nonpolar molecules from water, called the hydrophobic effect. When a nonpolar molecule is placed in water, it becomes completely surrounded by water molecules. The water molecules cannot form hydrogen bonds with the nonpolar molecules. However, they do form hydrogen bonds with the other water molecules that surround the nonpolar molecule, forming a layer of hydrogen-bonded water molecules that cover, or form a cage, around the nonpolar molecule. A representation of these water molecules organized around butane that has been added to water is shown in the following three-dimensional chemical structure. Production note: replace still image with dissolved-butane Jmol. The dissolved butane is highlighted in yellow. It is surrounded by a cage of water molecules, forming hydrogen bonds (purple) with each other (pdb file modified from Udachin et al., J. Chem. Phys, 134, 121104 (2011). The formation of the water cage is unfavorable, because it requires water molecules to become ordered. Ordering anything requires energy, whether it is a cage of water molecules surrounding a nonpolar molecule, or your messy dorm room. The energy cost of ordering water molecules around nonpolar compounds is so high that they are forced out of the water, leading to a separation of phases; oil and water don’t mix because of the hydrophobic effect. Most biological molecules contain both polar and nonpolar regions. Their behavior in water depends on the relative number and type of polar groups versus nonpolar groups. For example, consider this series of simple alcohols. Molecules that contain a very polar part and a very nonpolar part are called amphipathic. The polar part interacts with water, forming strong interactions, while the nonpolar part doesn’t interact with water because of the hydrophobic effect. In order to accomplish this, amphipathic molecules usually undergo spontaneous self-assembly into structures that expose the polar part to water and keep the nonpolar section away from water. One example of amphipathic molecules are fatty acids. Fatty Acids Molecule The carboxylate group (COOH) on the left interacts strongly with water, while the remaining part of the molecule is very hydrophobic and is forced away from water. Fatty acids form structures in solution called micelles. These spherical structures have the hydrophilic part exposed to water on the surface of the sphere and bury the hydrophobic part in the center of the sphere. Schematic of a spherical micelle. You might be wondering why triglycerides are not amphipathic, given that they are similar to fatty acids, with a polar group of atoms and a nonpolar group. The reason is that the polar region of triglycerides interacts weakly with water because there is no free -OH group.   Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Molecules Some molecules are hydrophobic, which literally means fear (phobia) of water (hydro). These molecules do not like to dissolve in water. When hydrophobic molecules are mixed with water, they will tend to separate into distinct phases (or layers), one containing water and the other containing the hydrophobic molecules. This makes it very difficult, for example, to “wash” oil off of waterfowl after an oil spill. Birds killed as a result of oil from the Exxon Valdez spill. Photo in the public domain courtesy of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Council. Things composed of hydrophobic molecules generally include oils, fats, and greasy substances. Materials containing hydrophobic substances are often used for removal of oil from water and management of oil spills. Other molecules are hydrophilic, which means love (philic) of water, and readily dissolve in water. Chemical Structures Now that you know some common hydrophobic and hydrophilic molecules, let’s look at their structures to understand why they interact with water in different ways. The additional atoms that are found only on glucose are electronegative, meaning that they will withdraw some of the electrons from the atoms that form bonds with them. The electronegative atom will have a slight negative charge, and the atom that it is bonded to it will have a slight positive charge. The unequal distribution of electrons makes the bond a polar bond. Water is a polar molecule. The electronegative oxygen draws the electron from hydrogen toward it, causing the hydrogens to have slight positive charge and the oxygen to have a slight negative charge. Glucose Interaction with Water Lets consider why the polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules interact favorably with water. Recall that water has the molecular structure of H-O-H, so it also has polar bonds. The interaction between a polar bond on water and polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules is given a special name — the hydrogen bond, because it involves a hydrogen that forms a bridge between the two molecules. Hydrogen bonds are fairly stable, so quite a bit of energy is released when they are formed. The release of energy helps hydrophilic molecules like glucose dissolve in water. Since hydrophilic molecules contain polar bonds, they are often referred to as polar molecules. Nonpolar Molecules Hydrophobic molecules lack the electronegative atoms that are required to generate a polar bond. Thus, hydrophobic molecules are also referred to as nonpolar. The fact that nonpolar molecules cannot form hydrogen bonds in one reason why they have low solubility in water; however, there is another far more important force that drives nonpolar molecules from water, called the hydrophobic effect. Hydrophobic Effect When a non-polar molecule dissolves in water it becomes completely surrounded by water molecules. The water molecules cannot form hydrogen bond with the non-polar molecule, however they do form hydrogen bonds with the other water molecules that surround the non-polar molecule, forming a layer of hydrogen bonded water molecules that cover, or form a cage, around the dissolved non-polar molecule. A representation of these water molecules organized around dissolved butane is shown in the following Jmol: The dissolved butane is highlighted in yellow. It is surrounded by a cage of water molecules, forming hydrogen bonds (purple) with each other. Place your cursor over the structure left-click, hold, and move your pointer to rotate the structure. Right-click to display a pop-up menu and select zoom-in or zoom-out to examine the chemical bonds. (Source: pdb file modified from Udachin et al., J. Chem. Phys, 134, 121104 (2011). The formation of the water cage is unfavorable, because it requires water molecules to become ordered. Ordering anything requires energy, whether it is a cage of water molecules surrounding a nonpolar molecule, or your messy dorm room. The energy cost of ordering water molecules around nonpolar compounds is so high that they are forced out of the water, leading to a separation of phases; oil and water don’t mix because of the hydrophobic effect. Most biological molecules contain both polar and nonpolar regions. Their behavior in water depends on the relative number and type of polar groups versus nonpolar groups. For example, consider this series of simple alcohols. Amphipathic Molecules Molecules that contain a very polar part and a very nonpolar part are called amphipathic. The polar part interacts with water, forming strong interactions, while the nonpolar part doesn’t interact with water because of the hydrophobic effect. In order to accomplish this, amphipathic molecules usually undergo spontaneous self-assembly into structures that expose the polar part to water and keep the nonpolar section away from water. One example of amphipathic molecules are fatty acids. Fatty Acids Molecule The carboxylate group (COOH) on the left interacts strongly with water, while the remaining part of the molecule is very hydrophobic and is forced away from water. Fatty acids form structures in solution called micelles. These spherical structures have the hydrophilic part exposed to water on the surface of the sphere and bury the hydrophobic part in the center of the sphere. Schematic of a spherical micelle. You might be wondering why triglycerides are not amphipathic, given that they are similar to fatty acids, with a polar group of atoms and a nonpolar group. The reason is that the polar region of triglycerides interacts weakly with water because there is no free -OH group. Now that you know some common hydrophobic and hydrophilic molecules, let’s look at their structures to understand why they interact with water in different ways. The additional atoms that are found only on glucose are electronegative, meaning that they will withdraw some of the electrons from the atoms that form bonds with them. The electronegative atom will have a slight negative charge, and the atom that it is bonded to it will have a slight positive charge. The unequal distribution of electrons makes the bond a polar bond. Water is a polar molecule. The electronegative oxygen draws the electron from hydrogen toward it, causing the hydrogens to have slight positive charge and the oxygen to have a slight negative charge. Glucose Interaction with Water Lets consider why the polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules interact favorably with water. Recall that water has the molecular structure of H-O-H, so it also has polar bonds. The interaction between a polar bond on water and polar bonds on hydrophilic molecules is given a special name — the hydrogen bond, because it involves a hydrogen that forms a bridge between the two molecules. Hydrogen bonds are fairly stable, so quite a bit of energy is released when they are formed. The release of energy helps hydrophilic molecules like glucose dissolve in water. Since hydrophilic molecules contain polar bonds, they are often referred to as polar molecules. Hydrophobic molecules lack the electronegative atoms that are required to generate a polar bond. Thus, hydrophobic molecules are also referred to as nonpolar. The fact that nonpolar molecules cannot form hydrogen bonds in one reason why they have low solubility in water; however, there is another far more important force that drives nonpolar molecules from water, called the hydrophobic effect. When a non-polar molecule dissolves in water it becomes completely surrounded by water molecules. The water molecules cannot form hydrogen bond with the non-polar molecule, however they do form hydrogen bonds with the other water molecules that surround the non-polar molecule, forming a layer of hydrogen bonded water molecules that cover, or form a cage, around the dissolved non-polar molecule. A representation of these water molecules organized around dissolved butane is shown in the following Jmol: The dissolved butane is highlighted in yellow. It is surrounded by a cage of water molecules, forming hydrogen bonds (purple) with each other. Place your cursor over the structure left-click, hold, and move your pointer to rotate the structure. Right-click to display a pop-up menu and select zoom-in or zoom-out to examine the chemical bonds. (Source: pdb file modified from Udachin et al., J. Chem. Phys, 134, 121104 (2011). The formation of the water cage is unfavorable, because it requires water molecules to become ordered. Ordering anything requires energy, whether it is a cage of water molecules surrounding a nonpolar molecule, or your messy dorm room. The energy cost of ordering water molecules around nonpolar compounds is so high that they are forced out of the water, leading to a separation of phases; oil and water don’t mix because of the hydrophobic effect. Most biological molecules contain both polar and nonpolar regions. Their behavior in water depends on the relative number and type of polar groups versus nonpolar groups. For example, consider this series of simple alcohols. Molecules that contain a very polar part and a very nonpolar part are called amphipathic. The polar part interacts with water, forming strong interactions, while the nonpolar part doesn’t interact with water because of the hydrophobic effect. In order to accomplish this, amphipathic molecules usually undergo spontaneous self-assembly into structures that expose the polar part to water and keep the nonpolar section away from water. One example of amphipathic molecules are fatty acids. Fatty Acids Molecule The carboxylate group (COOH) on the left interacts strongly with water, while the remaining part of the molecule is very hydrophobic and is forced away from water. Fatty acids form structures in solution called micelles. These spherical structures have the hydrophilic part exposed to water on the surface of the sphere and bury the hydrophobic part in the center of the sphere. Schematic of a spherical micelle. You might be wondering why triglycerides are not amphipathic, given that they are similar to fatty acids, with a polar group of atoms and a nonpolar group. The reason is that the polar region of triglycerides interacts weakly with water because there is no free -OH group.   Cohesiveness Have you ever filled up a glass of water to the very top and then slowly added a few more drops? Before it overflows, the water forms a dome-like shape above the rim of the glass. This water can stay above the edges of the glass because of the property of cohesion. In cohesion, water molecules are attracted to each other (because of hydrogen bonding), keeping the molecules together. Cohesion allows surface tension, the capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. When water is sprinkled onto a solid surface, surface tension causes the water to remain in compact droplets instead of spreading out into a thin film. Water drops exhibit cohesion. The water molecules attract each other strongly, and this force counteracts the force of gravity pulling water down against the leaf. When you drop a small scrap of paper onto a droplet of water, the paper floats on top of the water droplet, even though the object is denser (heavier) than the water. This occurs because of the surface tension that is created by the water molecules. Cohesion and surface tension keep the water molecules intact and the item floating on the top. Many insects are specially adapted to exploit surface tension, which allows them to literally “walk on water.” Water Strider The surface tension of water helps insects, such as this water strider, remain afloat. These cohesive forces are related to water’s property of adhesion, or the attraction between water molecules and other molecules. This is observed when water “climbs” up a straw placed in a glass of water. You will notice that the water appears to be higher on the sides of the straw than in the middle. This is because the water molecules are attracted to the straw and therefore adhere to it. Capillary Action If a thin glass tube is placed in water, the water moves up the tube in a process called capillary action. Capillary action is the result of adhesion of water to the sides of a glass tube and cohesion of water molecules to each other. Cohesive and adhesive forces are important for sustaining life. For example, because of these forces, water can flow up tubes within plants. These tubes connect the roots of plants to their leaves, and carry water to plant tissues. Adhesion helps water cling to the walls of the tubes, and cohesion keeps the water in an intact column. Without these properties of water, tall plants would be unable to receive the water and nutrients they require, and they would die.   Water Moderates Changes in Temperature Imagine you have placed a metal pan containing water on the stove. You transfer heat energy to the pan. If you touch the metal pan after a few minutes, it is warm or even hot to the touch, but the water does not yet feel warm. The metal’s temperature changes much more quickly than that of the water, even though both substances are receiving heat from the same source. Temperature is a measure of the vibrational energy of molecules within a substance; it reflects how fast the molecules are jiggling around. If you add heat to metal, the molecules respond quickly with an increase in their “jiggling” and the temperature increases rapidly. If you add the same amount of heat to water, the molecules respond much less quickly. Why is water’s temperature so resistant to change? Hydrogen Bonds in Water Water has many hydrogen bonds; each molecule can form hydrogen bonds with up to four other molecules. It takes a lot of energy to break all of these bonds. When water is heated, a large part of the heat energy goes into breaking the hydrogen bonds between the water molecules. Only a small part actually increases the kinetic energy of the water molecules. Imagine a rack of billiard (pool) balls. When the cue ball strikes them, energy is transferred and the balls “break,” rolling in every direction. What would happen if the balls were connected by rubber bands? They would not move nearly as much. Similarly, the hydrogen bonds among water molecules make it hard to increase their “jiggling.” As heat is added, hydrogen bonds are broken and water warms up, but due to the hydrogen bonding, the water’s temperature changes only slowly. When water cools down, it releases a great deal of heat as hydrogen bonds are re-established. This effect is particularly strong when water freezes; water molecules are joined in a regular crystal structure by stable hydrogen bonds. As these bonds form, heat is released to the surrounding environment. You may have noticed that snowy days are often not quite as cold as the dry clear days of winter. This is yet another example of the way that water moderates temperature.   Water Density The Solid State of Water Is Less Dense Than Its Liquid State When water freezes, the water molecules become arranged into a regular crystal. Each water molecule is bound by four hydrogen bonds to its neighbors. In this arrangement, the water molecules are further apart than they are in liquid water. Thus, the density of ice is less than the density of liquid water. Ice, the solid state of water, can float in the liquid state. This is important for lakes and ponds that contain fish and plants. When the temperature goes below freezing, ice is formed. The ice is less dense than the liquid, so it floats on the top of the lake or pond. The surface ice insulates the pond, helping it to retain heat, and keeps the pond from freezing solid. Solid water is less dense than liquid water. Ice floats on top of a glass of water because ice is less dense than water. Water-Ice The three dimensional structure of ice is shown above. Place your cursor over the structure, left-click, hold, and move your pointer to rotate the molecule. Click on “Highlight Void” to show the empty volume generated due to the hydrogen bonds in ice. Click on the "Spin on/off" checkbox to automatically spin or stop spinning the molecule. Solid water is less dense than liquid water because in ice, the regular pattern of hydrogen bonds pushes the molecules further apart. When water freezes, the water molecules become arranged into a regular crystal. Each water molecule is bound by four hydrogen bonds to its neighbors. In this arrangement, the water molecules are further apart than they are in liquid water. Thus, the density of ice is less than the density of liquid water. Ice, the solid state of water, can float in the liquid state. This is important for lakes and ponds that contain fish and plants. When the temperature goes below freezing, ice is formed. The ice is less dense than the liquid, so it floats on the top of the lake or pond. The surface ice insulates the pond, helping it to retain heat, and keeps the pond from freezing solid. Solid water is less dense than liquid water. Ice floats on top of a glass of water because ice is less dense than water. Water-Ice The three dimensional structure of ice is shown above. Place your cursor over the structure, left-click, hold, and move your pointer to rotate the molecule. Click on “Highlight Void” to show the empty volume generated due to the hydrogen bonds in ice. Click on the "Spin on/off" checkbox to automatically spin or stop spinning the molecule. Solid water is less dense than liquid water because in ice, the regular pattern of hydrogen bonds pushes the molecules further apart.   Water Density The Solid State of Water Is Less Dense Than Its Liquid State When water freezes, the water molecules become arranged into a regular crystal. Each water molecule is bound by four hydrogen bonds to its neighbors. In this arrangement, the water molecules are further apart than they are in liquid water. Thus, the density of ice is less than the density of liquid water. Ice, the solid state of water, can float in the liquid state. This is important for lakes and ponds that contain fish and plants. When the temperature goes below freezing, ice is formed. The ice is less dense than the liquid, so it floats on the top of the lake or pond. The surface ice insulates the pond, helping it to retain heat, and keeps the pond from freezing solid. Solid water is less dense than liquid water. Ice floats on top of a glass of water because ice is less dense than water. Water- Ice Solid water is less dense than liquid water because in ice, the regular pattern of hydrogen bonds pushes the molecules further apart. When water freezes, the water molecules become arranged into a regular crystal. Each water molecule is bound by four hydrogen bonds to its neighbors. In this arrangement, the water molecules are further apart than they are in liquid water. Thus, the density of ice is less than the density of liquid water. Ice, the solid state of water, can float in the liquid state. This is important for lakes and ponds that contain fish and plants. When the temperature goes below freezing, ice is formed. The ice is less dense than the liquid, so it floats on the top of the lake or pond. The surface ice insulates the pond, helping it to retain heat, and keeps the pond from freezing solid. Solid water is less dense than liquid water. Ice floats on top of a glass of water because ice is less dense than water. Water- Ice Solid water is less dense than liquid water because in ice, the regular pattern of hydrogen bonds pushes the molecules further apart.   Application Spotlight: Soaps We use detergents to remove oily dirt from things. We use dish detergent to remove the grease on dishes, laundry detergent for oils on our clothes, and shampoo for oils in our hair. Detergents make the hydrophobic oils soluble so that the dirt can be rinsed away. How does this happen? All detergents are amphipathic molecules; they have a polar, water-loving (hydrophilic) part and a nonpolar, water-hating (hydrophobic) part, which allows them to dissolve in both water and oils. The chemical structure of a common detergent, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), is shown below. The hydrophilic part of SDS interacts favorably with water by hydrogen bonding and electrostatic (charge-charge) interactions between the negative charge on the SDS and the partial positive charges on the polar water molecules. The hydrophobic part has no polar atoms to form favorable interactions with the water. The molecular structure of dodecyl sulfate (DS), a common detergent. When placed in water, detergents spontaneously form organized spherical structures called micelles. In a micelle, the hydrophilic part of the detergent is on the surface of the sphere and interacts with the water. The center of the sphere contains the hydrophobic part of the detergent, hidden from the water. A cross section image and a three-dimensional structure of a micelle are shown below. When a micelle comes in contact with oily (hydrophobic) compounds, the oils dissolve into the interior of the micelle and can be washed away with the micelle. A cross section of a micelle is shown on the left. The white balls represent the hydrophilic part of the molecule; the yellow strings represent the hydrophobic part of the detergent. The Jmol shows a micelle dissolved in water. You can remove the water to see the micelle by clicking here (active link removes water).   Application Spotlight: Soaps We use detergents to remove oily dirt from things. We use dish detergent to remove the grease on dishes, laundry detergent for oils on our clothes, and shampoo for oils in our hair. Detergents make the hydrophobic oils soluble so that the dirt can be rinsed away. How does this happen? All detergents are amphipathic molecules; they have a polar, water-loving (hydrophilic) part and a nonpolar, water-hating (hydrophobic) part, which allows them to dissolve in both water and oils. The chemical structure of a common detergent, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), is shown below. The hydrophilic part of DS interacts favorably with water by hydrogen bonding and electrostatic (charge-charge) interactions between the negative charge on the DS and the partial positive charges on the polar water molecules. The hydrophobic part has no polar atoms to form favorable interactions with the water. The molecular structure of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), a common detergent. When placed in water, detergents spontaneously form organized spherical structures called micelles. In a micelle, the hydrophilic part of the detergent is on the surface of the sphere and interacts with the water. The center of the sphere contains the hydrophobic part of the detergent, hidden from the water. A cross section image and a three-dimensional structure of a micelle are shown below. When a micelle comes in contact with oily (hydrophobic) compounds, the oils dissolve into the interior of the micelle and can be washed away with the micelle. Micelle Dissolved in Water A cross section of a micelle is shown on the left. The white balls represent the hydrophilic part of the molecule; the yellow strings represent the hydrophobic part of the detergent. The Jmol on the right shows a micelle dissolved in water. You can remove the water to see the micelle by clicking on the "Water Removal" checkbox. Automatically rotate the molecule by clicking on the "Spin on" checkbox.   Application Spotlight: Soaps We use detergents to remove oily dirt from things. We use dish detergent to remove the grease on dishes, laundry detergent for oils on our clothes, and shampoo for oils in our hair. Detergents make the hydrophobic oils soluble so that the dirt can be rinsed away. How does this happen? All detergents are amphipathic molecules; they have a polar, water-loving (hydrophilic) part and a nonpolar, water-hating (hydrophobic) part, which allows them to dissolve in both water and oils. The chemical structure of a common detergent, dodecyl sulfate (DS), is shown below. The hydrophilic part of DS interacts favorably with water by hydrogen bonding and electrostatic (charge-charge) interactions between the negative charge on the DS and the partial positive charges on the polar water molecules. The hydrophobic part has no polar atoms to form favorable interactions with the water. The molecular structure of dodecyl sulfate (DS), a common detergent. When placed in water, detergents spontaneously form organized spherical structures called micelles. In a micelle, the hydrophilic part of the detergent is on the surface of the sphere and interacts with the water. The center of the sphere contains the hydrophobic part of the detergent, hidden from the water. A cross section image and a three-dimensional structure of a micelle are shown below. When a micelle comes in contact with oily (hydrophobic) compounds, the oils dissolve into the interior of the micelle and can be washed away with the micelle. Micelle Dissolved in Water A cross section of a micelle is shown on the left. The white balls represent the hydrophilic part of the molecule; the yellow strings represent the hydrophobic part of the detergent. The Jmol on the right shows a micelle dissolved in water. You can remove the water to see the micelle by clicking on the "Water Removal" checkbox.   What Are Acids and Bases? This course has looked closely at the water molecule because it is vital to life. Water covers 70 percent of the Earth’s surface and the cell, the fundamental unit of life, consists of 70 to 95 percent water. In this module, we will examine one very small (and simple) substance that, when dissolved in water, can have an enormous impact on life: the hydrogen ion (H+). Hydrogen ions are hydrogen atoms that have had their electrons removed. What remains is only a single proton. The simplicity of this ion, however, is quite misleading. In this module, we will investigate the dynamics of H+ and learn more about the effects H+ can have on solutions. Acids and Bases The story of acids and bases begins with water (H2O). Water in the liquid state is highly dynamic. Not only are hydrogen bonds constantly forming and breaking between water molecules, but individual water molecules are breaking apart and then reforming again to make water. When they break apart, a hydrogen ion (H+) is transferred to another water molecule to make a hydronium ion (H3O+), leaving a hydroxide ion (OH-) from the original water molecule. This dynamic reaction can be represented by this chemical equation: H2O + H2O H3O+ + OH-. To simplify things we will represent the hydronium ion as a hydrogen ion (H3O+ = H+) in the following discussion. Notice that the two arrows point in opposite directions. This simply means that the equation can move in either direction. In other words, hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions can combine to form water, or water can break down into hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions. These two reactions are in equilibrium, so at any instant in a sample of pure water there are equal concentrations of H+ and OH-. Pure water is said to be “neutral.” This means it is neither acidic nor basic because it has equal concentrations of H+ and OH-. Some substances can dissolve in water and they will not disturb the balance between H+ and OH-. However, other compounds disturb this balance. Some compounds, when added to water, cause an increase of hydrogen ions (H+) in the solution. These compounds are called acids. Other compounds, when added to water, cause a decrease in hydrogen ions (H+) in the solution. These compounds are called bases. Some bases accept H+ directly, but others release hydroxide ions (OH-) that then combine with H+ to produce water. The end result is the same. When the base is dissolved in water, the concentration of H+ ions goes down. A compound that does not result in a net gain or loss of hydrogen ions (H+) when in aqueous solution is said to be neutral; it does not alter the acidity of the water. Acids and Bases in Solution This figure shows what acids and bases look like in aqueous solution. Notice that the concentration of hydrogen ions is greater than the concentration of hydroxide ions in an acid, the concentration of the hydrogen ions equals that of the hydroxide ions in the neutral solution, and the concentration of the hydrogen ions is less than the concentration of hydroxide ions in the base. This table compares and contrasts the features of acids and bases. Acids Bases Readily give hydrogen ions (H+) when dissolved in water Readily take hydrogen ions (H+) when dissolved in water; may donate hydroxide ions (OH-) Acidic foods often taste sour Basic foods often taste bitter Many foods and beverages are acidic Bases often make your skin feel slimy or slippery because they release soap-like molecules from your lipids. Strong acids can cause burns and are caustic Strong bases can cause burns and are caustic Acids commonly induce damage to living organisms by denaturing proteins: changing their shape so they do not function normally Bases commonly induce damage to living organisms by breaking down fats and denaturing proteins Understanding acids and bases is important to biology because living organisms must maintain homeostasis (balance) and cannot tolerate drastic changes in the acidity of their body fluids or cytoplasm. Cellular functions are disrupted if these fluids become too acidic or basic. This course has looked closely at the water molecule because it is vital to life. Water covers 70 percent of the Earth’s surface and the cell, the fundamental unit of life, consists of 70 to 95 percent water. In this module, we will examine one very small (and simple) substance that, when dissolved in water, can have an enormous impact on life: the hydrogen ion (H+). Hydrogen ions are hydrogen atoms that have had their electrons removed. What remains is only a single proton. The simplicity of this ion, however, is quite misleading. In this module, we will investigate the dynamics of H+ and learn more about the effects H+ can have on solutions. The story of acids and bases begins with water (H2O). Water in the liquid state is highly dynamic. Not only are hydrogen bonds constantly forming and breaking between water molecules, but individual water molecules are breaking apart and then reforming again to make water. When they break apart, a hydrogen ion (H+) is transferred to another water molecule to make a hydronium ion (H3O+), leaving a hydroxide ion (OH-) from the original water molecule. This dynamic reaction can be represented by this chemical equation: H2O + H2O H3O+ + OH-. To simplify things we will represent the hydronium ion as a hydrogen ion (H3O+ = H+) in the following discussion. Notice that the two arrows point in opposite directions. This simply means that the equation can move in either direction. In other words, hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions can combine to form water, or water can break down into hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions. These two reactions are in equilibrium, so at any instant in a sample of pure water there are equal concentrations of H+ and OH-. Pure water is said to be “neutral.” This means it is neither acidic nor basic because it has equal concentrations of H+ and OH-. Some substances can dissolve in water and they will not disturb the balance between H+ and OH-. However, other compounds disturb this balance. Some compounds, when added to water, cause an increase of hydrogen ions (H+) in the solution. These compounds are called acids. Other compounds, when added to water, cause a decrease in hydrogen ions (H+) in the solution. These compounds are called bases. Some bases accept H+ directly, but others release hydroxide ions (OH-) that then combine with H+ to produce water. The end result is the same. When the base is dissolved in water, the concentration of H+ ions goes down. A compound that does not result in a net gain or loss of hydrogen ions (H+) when in aqueous solution is said to be neutral; it does not alter the acidity of the water. Acids and Bases in Solution This figure shows what acids and bases look like in aqueous solution. Notice that the concentration of hydrogen ions is greater than the concentration of hydroxide ions in an acid, the concentration of the hydrogen ions equals that of the hydroxide ions in the neutral solution, and the concentration of the hydrogen ions is less than the concentration of hydroxide ions in the base. Acids Bases Readily give hydrogen ions (H+) when dissolved in water Readily take hydrogen ions (H+) when dissolved in water; may donate hydroxide ions (OH-) Acidic foods often taste sour Basic foods often taste bitter Many foods and beverages are acidic Bases often make your skin feel slimy or slippery because they release soap-like molecules from your lipids. Strong acids can cause burns and are caustic Strong bases can cause burns and are caustic Acids commonly induce damage to living organisms by denaturing proteins: changing their shape so they do not function normally Bases commonly induce damage to living organisms by breaking down fats and denaturing proteins Understanding acids and bases is important to biology because living organisms must maintain homeostasis (balance) and cannot tolerate drastic changes in the acidity of their body fluids or cytoplasm. Cellular functions are disrupted if these fluids become too acidic or basic.   Introduction to Organic Molecules All living organisms--from bacteria to trees to humans--are composed of molecules. To make an organism, many molecules must be combined, and it takes energy to put molecules together. Covalent bonds contain energy associated with the force that holds the two atoms together. Some bonds are relatively weak and unstable. When they are replaced by stronger, more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released. In cells, certain high-energy molecules contain many unstable bonds and are used for fuel. When these molecules are broken down to simpler molecules with more stable bonds, chemical potential energy is released. Cells can capture this energy and use it to do work (e.g., power movement or build new macromolecules ). How cells manage to do this is discussed in the Metabolism unit of the course. In chemistry, the word “organic” has a special meaning. It is different from the grocery-store meaning, where “organic” refers to foods that are grown in a particular way and are free of chemical pesticides. In fact, many of the chemical pesticides than an organic farmer would never use are themselves organic molecules! Molecules like water, oxygen gas, carbon dioxide, and ionic salts like sodium chloride are inorganic. Most inorganic substances are relatively stable, simple, and store little chemical potential energy. By contrast, organic molecules are often complex and many store a lot of chemical potential energy. Examples of organic molecules include glucose, methane, DNA, protein, and fat. This unit will focus on organic molecules and the roles these molecules play in living organisms. What exactly are organic molecules? All organic molecules have several common properties that help distinguish them from inorganic molecules: 1) All organic molecules contain carbon atoms bonded to hydrogen (C-H bonds), oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. 2) Atoms within organic molecules are connected by covalent bonds. 3) Smaller organic molecules (monomers) can be linked together to make larger organic molecules (polymers). Larger organic molecules consist of a carbon/oxygen/nitrogen skeleton (backbone) with other atoms branching off from this structure . 4) Organic molecules are typically produced by living cells, and are found in large amounts only in living things or in their remains. Humans have also developed ways to synthesize organic chemicals artificially. Chemical structure of an organic molecule. This is, MDMA - the drug known as Ecstasy. This molecule interacts with proteins in nerve cells in the brain, leading to release of serotonin and pleasant feelings. Use of the drug is risky. Particularly when coupled with physical activity and other drugs, it can be deadly. In the long term, depression and memory loss may result from chronic use.   Introduction to Organic Molecules In chemistry, the word “organic” has a special meaning. It is different from the grocery-store meaning, where “organic” refers to foods that are grown in a particular way and are free of pesticides. In fact, many of the chemical pesticides that an organic farmer would never use are actually organic molecules. An organic molecule is any molecule that contains a carbon to hydrogen (C-H) covalent bond. They are often complex and many store a lot of chemical potential energy. Examples of organic molecules include glucose, methane, DNA, protein, and fat. All the molecules discussed in the "Introduction to Chemistry" unit were inorganic molecules. Molecules like water, oxygen gas, carbon dioxide, and ionic salts like sodium chloride fall into this category. Most inorganic substances are relatively stable, simple, and store little chemical potential energy. What exactly are organic molecules? Characteristics of Organic Molecules All organic molecules have several common properties that help distinguish them from inorganic molecules: All organic molecules contain carbon atoms bonded to hydrogen (C-H bonds). Organic molecules often contain oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, or sulfur as well. Atoms within organic molecules are connected by covalent bonds. Organic molecules are modular. Smaller organic molecules (monomers) can be linked together to make larger organic molecules (polymers). Larger organic molecules consist of a carbon/oxygen/nitrogen/phosphorus skeleton (backbone) with other atoms branching off from this structure. Organic molecules are typically produced by living cells and are found in large amounts only in living things or in their remains. However, it is important to remember that some molecules produced by living things are inorganic. Humans have developed ways to synthesize organic chemicals artificially. In this module, you will learn more about how to recognize organic molecules. You’ll also explore in more detail the important characteristics of organic molecules. All organic molecules have several common properties that help distinguish them from inorganic molecules: All organic molecules contain carbon atoms bonded to hydrogen (C-H bonds). Organic molecules often contain oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, or sulfur as well. Atoms within organic molecules are connected by covalent bonds. Organic molecules are modular. Smaller organic molecules (monomers) can be linked together to make larger organic molecules (polymers). Larger organic molecules consist of a carbon/oxygen/nitrogen/phosphorus skeleton (backbone) with other atoms branching off from this structure. Organic molecules are typically produced by living cells and are found in large amounts only in living things or in their remains. However, it is important to remember that some molecules produced by living things are inorganic. Humans have developed ways to synthesize organic chemicals artificially. In this module, you will learn more about how to recognize organic molecules. You’ll also explore in more detail the important characteristics of organic molecules.   Organic Molecules Contain Carbon All organic molecules contain carbon atoms covalently bonded to hydrogen (C-H bonds). They can also contain oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. In the next activity, you will practice determining whether or not a chemical structure is an organic molecule.   Organic Molecules' Distinctive Characteristics Modularity Organic molecules come in all shapes and sizes. One of the key features of organic molecules is their modularity: a limited set of monomers can be connected in different ways to form a vast array of polymers. It may help to consider an analogy: with a few dozen different kinds of Lego bricks, you can make an almost limitless diversity of structures. In organic molecules, monomers can be linked together by bonds between different atoms, different monomers can be used, and they can be strung together in many different arrangements. Therefore organic molecules are virtually limitless in their diversity. Carbon's Role Why are organic molecules so diverse and flexible in their structure? The characteristics of carbon are essential for building the complex and diverse structures needed for life. A single carbon atom is able to bond with up to four other atoms, allowing the formation of chains, branched chains, and even rings. Diversity of Carbon Skeletons Organic molecules have a diversity of shapes due to carbon’s ability to form 4 covalent bonds. Carbon can form long chains (such as the fatty acid seen in a); branched chains(as seen in b); rings (such as cholesterol seen in c); or even branched chains of rings (such as glycerol seen in d) Carbon forms covalent bonds with many other elements; these strong bonds make organic molecules durable. DNA DNA is made of carbon a carbon skeleton that is bound to nitrogen, oxygen, and phosphorus and hydrogen. Major Classes of Biologically-relevant Organic Molecules The four major classes of biologically-relevant organic molecules are: carbohydrates, proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids. These molecules carry out a diverse set of essential functions. Carbohydrates are essential for energy storage and cellular communication. Nucleic acids (such as DNA) are essential for information storage within a cell and passing on this information to the next generation. Lipids are essential for energy storage and maintaining a boundary between the living organism and its environment. Proteins are essential for carrying out most of the necessary functions of life. You will begin by learning about carbohydrates in the next topic page. Organic molecules come in all shapes and sizes. One of the key features of organic molecules is their modularity: a limited set of monomers can be connected in different ways to form a vast array of polymers. It may help to consider an analogy: with a few dozen different kinds of Lego bricks, you can make an almost limitless diversity of structures. In organic molecules, monomers can be linked together by bonds between different atoms, different monomers can be used, and they can be strung together in many different arrangements. Therefore organic molecules are virtually limitless in their diversity. Why are organic molecules so diverse and flexible in their structure? The characteristics of carbon are essential for building the complex and diverse structures needed for life. A single carbon atom is able to bond with up to four other atoms, allowing the formation of chains, branched chains, and even rings. Diversity of Carbon Skeletons Organic molecules have a diversity of shapes due to carbon’s ability to form 4 covalent bonds. Carbon can form long chains (such as the fatty acid seen in a); branched chains(as seen in b); rings (such as cholesterol seen in c); or even branched chains of rings (such as glycerol seen in d) Carbon forms covalent bonds with many other elements; these strong bonds make organic molecules durable. DNA DNA is made of carbon a carbon skeleton that is bound to nitrogen, oxygen, and phosphorus and hydrogen. The four major classes of biologically-relevant organic molecules are: carbohydrates, proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids. These molecules carry out a diverse set of essential functions. Carbohydrates are essential for energy storage and cellular communication. Nucleic acids (such as DNA) are essential for information storage within a cell and passing on this information to the next generation. Lipids are essential for energy storage and maintaining a boundary between the living organism and its environment. Proteins are essential for carrying out most of the necessary functions of life. You will begin by learning about carbohydrates in the next topic page.   Organic Molecules are Diverse and Durable Carbon's Role Why are organic molecules so diverse and flexible in their structure? The characteristics of carbon are essential for building the complex and diverse structures needed for life. A single carbon atom is able to bond with up to four other atoms, allowing the formation of chains, branched chains, and even rings. Diversity of Carbon Skeletons Organic molecules have a diversity of shapes due to carbon’s ability to form four covalent bonds. Carbon can form long chains (such as the fatty acid seen in a); branched chains (as seen in b); rings (such as the cholesterol seen in c); or even branched chains of rings (such as the glycerol seen in d). Carbon forms covalent bonds with many other elements; these strong bonds make organic molecules durable. DNA DNA is made of a carbon skeleton that is bound to nitrogen, oxygen, and phosphorus and hydrogen. Why are organic molecules so diverse and flexible in their structure? The characteristics of carbon are essential for building the complex and diverse structures needed for life. A single carbon atom is able to bond with up to four other atoms, allowing the formation of chains, branched chains, and even rings. Diversity of Carbon Skeletons Organic molecules have a diversity of shapes due to carbon’s ability to form four covalent bonds. Carbon can form long chains (such as the fatty acid seen in a); branched chains (as seen in b); rings (such as the cholesterol seen in c); or even branched chains of rings (such as the glycerol seen in d). Carbon forms covalent bonds with many other elements; these strong bonds make organic molecules durable. DNA DNA is made of a carbon skeleton that is bound to nitrogen, oxygen, and phosphorus and hydrogen.   Bonding: Hydrophobic Interaction Hydrophobic Interaction A type of interaction that occurs between neutral, hydrophobic, or water-fearing , molecules. These molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. For example, shaking a bottle of oil and vinegar (acetic acid in water), such as in a salad dressing, results in the oil being dispersed as tiny droplets in the vinegar. As the mixture settles, the oil collects in larger and larger drops until it only exists as a layer, or phase, above the vinegar. A similar effect occurs in biological systems. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Similarly, biological membranes are stabilized by the exclusion of water between layers of lipids as we will see later. The hydrophobic effect does not involve direct bonding between the non-polar molecules, it is an entropy driven process. You may recall that processes that increase the disorder of a system are more favorable. When a hydrophobic molecule is truly dissolved in water, the water forms a highly ordered ice-like shell around the compound. When the hydrophobic molecules contact each during separation of the aqueous and non-polar phases, the ordered water is released and become highly disordered. The increase in disorder of the released water molecules is responsible for the spontaneous assembly of many biological systems, such as proteins and membranes. Mixed Non-polar/polar molecules: Of course, there are instances where even molecules with electronegative atoms will not be water soluble. Computer algorithms are currently used to predict water solubility based on structure. For our purposes, we will balance the ratio of polar and non-polar elements in a structure to estimate the chemical nature of any compound we are going to study. Amphipathic molecules are molecules that have a distinct non-polar, or hydrophobic region, and a distinct polar region. These molecules do not form true solution is water. Rather, the non-polar parts are forced together into a non-polar aggregate, leaving the polar part of the molecule to interact with the aqueous phase. Detergents and long-chain carboxylic acids are examples of amphipathic molecules. A type of interaction that occurs between neutral, hydrophobic, or water-fearing , molecules. These molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. For example, shaking a bottle of oil and vinegar (acetic acid in water), such as in a salad dressing, results in the oil being dispersed as tiny droplets in the vinegar. As the mixture settles, the oil collects in larger and larger drops until it only exists as a layer, or phase, above the vinegar. A similar effect occurs in biological systems. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Similarly, biological membranes are stabilized by the exclusion of water between layers of lipids as we will see later. The hydrophobic effect does not involve direct bonding between the non-polar molecules, it is an entropy driven process. You may recall that processes that increase the disorder of a system are more favorable. When a hydrophobic molecule is truly dissolved in water, the water forms a highly ordered ice-like shell around the compound. When the hydrophobic molecules contact each during separation of the aqueous and non-polar phases, the ordered water is released and become highly disordered. The increase in disorder of the released water molecules is responsible for the spontaneous assembly of many biological systems, such as proteins and membranes. Mixed Non-polar/polar molecules: Of course, there are instances where even molecules with electronegative atoms will not be water soluble. Computer algorithms are currently used to predict water solubility based on structure. For our purposes, we will balance the ratio of polar and non-polar elements in a structure to estimate the chemical nature of any compound we are going to study. Amphipathic molecules are molecules that have a distinct non-polar, or hydrophobic region, and a distinct polar region. These molecules do not form true solution is water. Rather, the non-polar parts are forced together into a non-polar aggregate, leaving the polar part of the molecule to interact with the aqueous phase. Detergents and long-chain carboxylic acids are examples of amphipathic molecules.   Glossary of Terms The following is a list of the key terms discussed in the CC-OLI Biological Principles course and their meaning. Abiotic An adjective that describes materials that are considered nonliving. Rocks, air, and ice are abiotic. Adhesion The attraction of water molecules to molecules other than water. Capillary action (in which water will spontaneously climb up the walls of a tube without pumping) is a result of the adhesion of water molecules with the surface of a tube containing the water. Anthropogenic Global Climate Change It is the full range of climatic disruptions that have occurred as a probable result of human alteration of the atmosphere. In other words, it is recent climate warming—and weirdness—that is probably caused by humans. Aqueous solutions Solutions in which water is the solvent. Atom The basic unit of matter that cannot be further broken down without losing its unique properties. One atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by a cloud of electrons. The diagram below represents an atom of lithium. Atomic mass Mass of an atom. Can be approximated by adding the number of protons and the number of neutrons. Atomic number Number of protons in each atom, which is equal to the number of electrons in each atom--unless the atom is ionized. As seen in this diagram of an atom, lithium has three protons in its nucleus. Therefore the atomic number of lithium is 3. Biodegradable Material Biodegradable materials are more sustainable over time because natural decomposition processes will break them down and recycle any nutrients they contain. Nonbiodegradable materials tend to accumulate over time and may cause negative environmental impacts. Biodiversity Biodiversity is simply the diversity of life in an area. Biogeochemical Cycles The processes that transfer chemical elements between biotic and abiotic components in an ecosystem Biology The scientific study of life. Biology is a vast subject divided into many branches or subdivisions representing areas of specialization. Branches of biology include: anatomy, biochemistry, ecology, evolution, genetics, immunology, physiology, and many more. Biomass The total mass of organic matter in an ecosystem or the mass of all members of some specified group of organisms (e.g. producer biomass, insect biomass, etc.) Biosphere All areas on, within, and around the planet Earth that are capable of supporting life. Biotic An adjective that describes living organisms or their remains. Common characteristics of biotic (living) things are that they use energy and raw materials to grow, sense and respond to changing environments; they reproduce; and they consist of one or more cells. Biotic Cycling Cycling of chemicals among living organisms Cell The smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life. Cells are fluid-filled spaces bound by a membrane. When first formed, all cells include DNA and other macromolecules and are organized to grow, reproduce, and respond to changes in the external environment. Chemical bonds Attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. There are three major types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: i) covalent, ii) ionic, and iii) hydrogen bonds. Chemistry The study of matter and its structure, properties, and reactions. Understanding the basic principles of chemistry is vitally important in studying biology, as many biological interactions involve chemistry. Climate Change Adaptation is the effort to make humans and ecosystems less vulnerable to the effects of ongoing and future climate change. Climate Change Mitigation is the effort to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or increase the rate at which they are removed from the air, thereby slowing the pace and reducing the severity of climate change. Cohesion Describes a property of matter in which particles tend to stick together. Liquid water is cohesive and forms spherical droplets because of its hydrogen bonds which attract the individual water molecules to each other. Community All of the populations interacting with each other within a specified area. Consumer An organism that must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms. Consumers get their energy and nutrients from such food molecules. Humans and other animals are consumers, as are fungi and most bacteria. Control Group A group of subjects in an experiment that does not receive the treatment to be evaluated, but is otherwise similar to the experimental group. The control group provides a strong basis for comparison, demonstrating what happens in the absence of the factor being tested. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, experimenters would predict that the control group subjects—those who did not receive the drug—would not be cured over the course of the study. Covalent bonds Chemical bonds that form molecules and are a result of sharing of electrons; electrons can be shared equally (non-polar covalent) or unequally (polar covalent). In the diagram below that illustrates the formation of a methane molecule, the carbon atom shares each of its 4 valence electrons with one hydrogen atom, which in turn shares its 1 valence electron with the carbon atom. Dependent Variable An effect; a variable that is thought to change as a result or consequence of some other variable. In an experiment, a dependent variable is used to describe the result, or outcome. For example, in a study to test a drug, the dependent variable might be the proportion of subjects that are cured at the end of the study. Development Change in structure and function that occurs in an orderly way as an organism passes through its life cycle. Ecosystem All the living things in a particular area together with the abiotic (nonliving) materials and conditions in that area. Electron Negatively charged subatomic particle that occupies shells surrounding the nucleus and has a mass that is so small it is considered to be zero. Electronegativity The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Strongly electronegative atoms bonded to weakly electronegative hydrogen atoms, in a molecule, result in hydrogen bonding. The most important strongly electronegative elements in biological systems are oxygen and nitrogen. Emergent Properties Characteristics of a system that do not appear in any one of its component parts alone, but that appear when all parts are combined. Energy The capacity to do work or to make a change in the location, temperature, or structure of matter. Energy Pyramid Diagram that shows the energy available at each trophic level in an ecosystem Enzyme A protein that speeds up the rate of chemical reactions that support life. Evolution A scientific theory explaining how and why genetic changes occur in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time. Experimental Group A group of subjects in an experiment that receives the treatment to be evaluated. If the hypothesis is correct, the dependent variable will change in a predictable way within the experimental group. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, a high proportion of those in the experimental group would be cured or helped by the treatment, if the hypothesis is correct. Food Chain A linear series of community members linked by feeding relationships: grass → rabbit → fox Food Web A diagram showing all feeding relationships in a community; emphasizes the complexity of real communities which generally have many interconnected food chains Greenhouse Effect Certain gases warm the climate by absorbing and re-emitting heat radiation, keeping temperatures warmer and more stable near the planet’s surface. Humans have strengthened this effect by adding extra greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Some results have included increased temperatures, increased sea level, increasingly variable weather, melting ice and permafrost, increasing droughts, shifts in species distributions, and shifts in the timing of seasonal events. Greenhouse Gas Greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat waves (infrared radiation). Three important greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4). Much of the heat (infrared) radiation that leaves Earth’s surface is absorbed by greenhouse gases and reemitted back toward Earth. As a result, these gases retain heat in the atmosphere. Instead of escaping immediately to space, heat is delayed near the Earth’s surface and continues to warm our atmosphere. Growth Increase in size of an organism. Biological growth, unlike the growth of a glacier or a mountain, is not merely an increase in size; it also involves the reorganization of materials into the unique structures of the organism. Habitat Loss Human activities destroy or change habitat so that it no longer supports the growth and reproduction of a species. This is widely acknowledged as the most important direct threat to biodiversity worldwide. Habitats that have been profoundly changed by human activities include forests (clearing), grasslands (plowing and overgrazing), rivers (damming), and wetlands (draining). Homeostasis The tendency of organisms and cells to maintain stable internal conditions. The term comes from the Greek words homeo (same, alike) and stasis (standing). Hydrogen bonds Weak electrostatic attraction that occurs between the partial positive charge on the H atom of one polar molecule and the partial negative charge in some region of another polar molecule. The separation of charge within a molecule (required for hydrogen bonding between molecules) usually occurs where an electronegative element (usually O or N) is bonded to a hydrogen atom. Hydrophilic Substances that dissolve in or are attracted to water. “Water-loving.” Ionic and polar substances are hydrophilic. Hypothesis A proposed explanation of an observation; often referred to as an “educated guess.” In the process of the scientific method, a hypothesis is tested through experimentation and/or observation. Independent Variable A cause or factor; a variable that is thought to cause another variable to change. In an experiment, an independent variable is deliberately changed in one group at the beginning of the study. For example, in a study to test a drug, one group might be given the drug and another group would not; the independent variable in this example would be whether patients were given the drug. Introduced Species Humans move species out of their natural range and into a new area. The new species prey upon, compete with, change habitat for, or otherwise harm native species, resulting in their extinction. This is a particularly important threat on islands and other isolated habitats, where introduced predators may decimate native prey species that are not adapted to their presence. Ion An atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and consequently has a positive or a negative charge. Positive ions are referred to as cations. Negative ions are referred to as anions. Ionic bond An attractive force generated by the interactions between ions of opposite charges. In the formation of an ionic bond, electrons are said to be transferred from one atom to another. Isotopes Two atoms with the same atomic number (because they are the same element and have the same number of protons), but different atomic mass (because they have different numbers of neutrons). Carbon-12 (the number after the hyphen, 12 in this example, indicates the atomic mass), which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons and Carbon-13, which has 6 protons and 7 neutrons are two isotopes of carbon. Macromolecule A large and complex molecule formed from combining smaller subunits, and consisting of many atoms. There are four main types of macromolecules that you will be learning about in this course: carbohydrates, nucleic acids, lipids, and proteins. Matter Anything that occupies space and has mass. Microorganism A life form that cannot be seen with the naked eye; also called a microbe. Microorganisms include bacteria, many single-celled eukaryotes (plants, animals, fungi, and small creatures called protists), and even some multicellular life forms. Molecule Two or more atoms held together by a chemical bond. The diagram below illustrates a molecule of methane (CH4), in which four hydrogen (H) atoms are covalently bonded to one carbon (C) atom. neutron Subatomic particle with a neutral charge that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Nucleus The word nucleus is used in two different contexts in the study of biology. Loosely defined, nucleus means "center" or "core." Here, in a study of basic chemistry, nucleus means "the center of an atom." In this case, the nucleus is a central area in which the atom’s heavy particles (protons and neutrons) are packed close together. When discussing cell structure, the word nucleus refers to the central organelle of the eukaryotic cell. It consists of the cell’s DNA enclosed in a double-layered membrane and can be thought of as the “command center” of the eukaryotic cell. Nutrients Forms of matter that an organism requires and that the organism cannot make for itself. Nutrients must be taken in from the outside environment. Humans obtain nutrients from the food we eat and the water we drink. Plants take up nutrients through their roots (water and dissolved minerals) and from the air (carbon dioxide gas). Organ A collection of tissues grouped together based on a common general function. Some common organs in the human body are the heart, lungs, and kidneys. Organelle A compartment inside the cells of eukaryotes that contain specific groups of macromolecules and carry out specific cellular functions. Organism An organism is an individual living entity that survives and reproduces as a unit. Examples include a single bacterial cell, a plant grown from a single seed, or you—as an individual human being. Organ System Functionally-related organs that work together to carry out a function throughout an organism’s body. Your body is made up of many organ systems, including the skeletal, digestive, and circulatory systems. Overharvesting Human harvesting—hunting, fishing, logging, gathering, and so on—removes individuals more quickly than they can be replaced by natural reproduction. This was historically a major threat in North America and Europe, but today most fish and wildlife resources are fairly well-protected. Open ocean fisheries and tropical mammals, by contrast, are heavily impacted by human harvesting today. Physical Disturbance Humans reshape the physical structure of ecosystems by clearing forests, suppressing or setting fires, building roads and cities, mining, maintaining croplands, and building water control structures such as dams. This leads to biodiversity loss. It may also increase our exposure to forest fires, floods, droughts, soil erosion, landslides, and other physical hazards. Pollution Wastes generated by human activities change habitat conditions or threaten the health of organisms directly. Nutrient pollution, for example, is a global problem that harms the diversity of aquatic and some terrestrial communities. Pollution of the atmosphere by greenhouse gases generates climate change, a problem so complex and severe that it is often counted as a separate threat category. Population All the individuals of a single species living within a specified area. Producers Organisms that use simple materials, such as water and carbon dioxide, as nutrients and use an outside source of energy (e.g., energy from sunlight) to make their own food from these materials. Plants are an example of producers. Proton Positively charged subatomic particle that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Renewable Resource those that are replenished quickly enough to replace what we consume. Resources are renewed through growth or other ongoing processes. Reproduction Process by which an individual organism gives rise to offspring, passing on its genetic information to the next generation. Resource Depletion Currently, the average citizen of a developed nation consumes an average of 16 tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year. Shortages may result if humans use resources at an unsustainable rate. Wild plants and animals may be harvested to the point of extinction. Degradation of soil can lead to crop failures. Minerals and fossil fuels may be depleted to the point where their extraction becomes increasingly expensive and disruptive. Scientific Experiment A structured and active process used to test a hypothesis. In an experiment, the scientist has some form of control over the variables at work in the system under study. Typically some variable is deliberately changed by the experimenter and other variables are monitored to see if they change as a result. Scientific Observation a process used to explore and describe patterns in nature. In a strictly observational study, the scientist does not have control over the conditions or variables at work in the system under study. The scientist reports what has happened without taking steps to intervene in the system. Selection Process in which characteristics of a population change predictably over many generations. Selection takes forms such as natural selection (favors traits that aid in survival to reproductive age), sexual selection (favors traits that boost mating success), and artificial selection (favors traits that are chosen by human breeders). Solute Component of a solution that is present in the smallest quantity and which dissolves in a solvent. Solutions Homogeneous mixtures of solvent and solute. Solvent Component of a solution that is present in the greatest quantity and in which something else is dissolved. Surface Tension The capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. Sustainable Technology Sustainable technologies meet human needs—economic and social—and preserve the productivity or biodiversity of ecosystems over a long period of time. Tissue a groups of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function within an organism. In the lung, for instance, the lining of airways comprises one type of tissue: a layer of similar cells that forms a sealed surface. Valence Electrons The electrons in the outermost shell of the atom, which are available for chemical bonding. This diagram of a carbon atom illustrates that carbon has 4 valence electrons. Variable A characteristic of a subject that can vary from one subject to the next or over time. A variable may be a category to which a subject can be assigned (for example: male or female) or it may be measured precisely (for example: body mass).   Definitions of Terms The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Aldose A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde Allosteric Binding Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme. Catalyst A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Chirality When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. Covalent bond Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.) The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom. De novo synthesis De novo is new synthesis from simple molecules such as deoxynucleotides in this case without a starting place - the primer. Electronegativity The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Electronegativity increases as one moves from left to right, across the periodic chart. Because the electronegative atoms have the potential to attract electrons, i.e., the electrons spend more time on the electronegative atom, a molecule containing an electronegative atom will have partial negative charge associated with that atom (as indicated by δ-). The the bonding partner in the covalent bond becomes partially positively charged (as indicated by δ+ ). Eukaryotes An organism with complex cells with distinctive traits such as a nucleaus, membrane-bound organelles, a cytoskeleton, and the presence of introns in genes. Furanose Cyclic sugars that contain a five membered ring are called furanoses. Genome the complete DNA sequence of one set of chromosomes from an organism. Hydrogen Bond Hydrogen bond (H-bond) is an interaction between a partially positive hydrogen atom and a partially negative atom with unshared (lone) pair of electrons. In order for hydrogen to have sufficient partial positive charge, hydrogen must be covalently attached to a very electronegative atom (O, N, P). Partially negative atom with lone pair of electrons must also be a highly electronegative atom like oxygen or nitrogen. Hydrophilic Hydrophilic (from Greek meaning "water-loving") refers to molecules that are water soluble. Hydrophilic molecules contain polar functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds with water. Hydrophobic Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not dissolve in water. Hydrophobic molecules have no (or very few) highly electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are excluded from water (see hydrophobic interactions). Hydrophobic Interactions The term “hydrophobic interactions” is used to describe the force driving the exclusion of nonpolar molecules from aqueous environment. In contrast to other non-covalent interactions, there is NO strong attractive force bringing nonpolar molecules together. Water molecules have stronger attraction for other water molecules than for non-polar molecules. As a result, water molecules tend to bond to each other (via hydrogen bonds) excluding nonpolar molecules. Non-polar molecules do interact with each other via van der Waals bonds, but these week interactions cannot be considered the driving force for exclusion of non-polar molecules from water. Deeper understanding of hydrophobic interactions requires familiarity with concepts of thermodynamics (entropy). Ionic Bond An ion is an atom or a molecule that carries a charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. Ionic bonds are interactions between oppositely charged ions. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. Ketose A carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) that is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus making this carbonyl a ketone, is a ketose. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. Monomer a structural unit of a polymer. For example, glucose is a monomer that makes up polysaccharide starch, and amino acids are monomers (monomeric subunits) that make up proteins (aka polypeptides). In biochemistry, monomer is also used to specify a protein that contains only one polypeptide. In contrast, multimeric proteins may contain two (dimer), three (trimer), four (tetramer) or more polypeptide chains. Polymer These are large molecules consisting of repeating structural units, or monomers, connected by covalent chemical bonds. Prokaryotes A unicellular organizm lacking certain complex cell features, such as a membrane-bound nucleus and gene introns. Subunit Structural unit of a larger molecule or a protein in a multi-protein complex. This term is similar, but not identical to the term monomer. Atomic Number The number of protons that a given atom of an element contains.   Glossary of Terms The following is a list of the key terms discussed in this Introduction to Biology course and their meaning. Click on one of the letters below to jump to that setion of the glossary: ~~ A ~~ B ~~ C ~~ D ~~ E ~~ F ~~ G ~~ H ~~ I ~~ J ~~ K ~~ L ~~ M ~~ ~~ N ~~ O ~~ P ~~ Q ~~ R ~~ S ~~ T ~~ U ~~ V ~~ W ~~ X ~~ Y ~~ Z ~~ - A - Abiotic An adjective that describes nonliving materials in the environment, such as sunlight, rain, gases in the air, rocks, and chemicals in the soil. Acids Substances that when dissolved in water form an excess of hydronium ions (H3O+). Acids are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) donors. Acids taste sour. Many foods and beverages are acidic, including citrus fruit and tomato juice. Activation Energy The amount of energy required by a chemical reaction in order for the reaction to occur. All chemical reactions require some amount of activation energy. Active Site The part of an enzyme to which a substrate binds. Active Transport The movement of a substance across a biological membrane against its concentration gradient, aided by specific transport proteins and requiring input of energy (often as ATP). Adenosine Diphosphate (ADP) Adenosine diphosphate, or ADP, consists of a single adenosine molecule (composed of an adenine base bound to a ribose sugar) linked to two phosphate ions. Building ATP from ADP is an anabolic reaction that requires catabolic pathways such as cellular respiration. Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP) Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a nucleotide; that is, an organic molecule that acts as the direct energy source for almost all cellular activities. It consists of a single adenosine molecule (composed of the base adenine bound to a ribose sugar), linked to three phosphate ions. It is however a relatively unstable molecule; consequently, it is never used for the long-term storage of energy in the cell. ATP is specialized for direct and rapid transfers of energy. ATP consists of a single adenosine molecule (green rectangle) linked to three phosphate ions (orange circles). Adhesion The attraction of water molecules to molecules other than water. Capillary action (in which water will spontaneously climb up the walls of a tube without pumping) is a result of the adhesion of water molecules with the surface of a tube containing the water. Aldose A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde Allele An alternative form of a gene. An example would be genes that encode eye color - some encode blue eyes (one allele), while others encode brown, green or hazel eye colors (other alleles). Allopatric Speciation The formation of a new species through the geographical isolation of a portion of a population from the population as a whole. Amino Acids A small organic molecule with the structure of an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, and an “R” group, which are all bonded to a single central carbon atom. The difference between the “R” group is what distinguishes one amino acid from another. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. Amino Acids, Aromatic An amino acid with a side chain that contains a ring structure with conjugated double bonds. Conjugated double bonds refer to the alternating arrangement of bonds in a molecule: double-single-double bond. The benzene ring is the best known example of an aromatic group. Two amino acids, phenylalanine and tyrosine, contain the benzene ring. Aromatic rings can include atoms other than carbon. Amino Acids with Acidic Side Chains Amino acids with acidic side chains contain a carboxyl group on the side chain. At physiological pH, acidic groups lose protons (acting as an acid) and become negatively charged. Amino Acids with Basic Side Chains Amino acids with basic side chains contain basic nitrogen-containing groups. At physiological pH, basic groups gain a proton (acting as a base) and become positively charged. Anabolic Anabolic reactions use energy to build more complex molecules from relatively simple raw materials. Anaphase A stage within the mitosis phase of cell division (also known as cell reproduction). Anaphase starts when sister chromatids separate from each other and ends when each set of separated, sister chromatids arrives at the opposite poles of the cell. Aneuploidy A condition where an abnormal number of chromosomes and genetic material migrates and attaches where it does not belong. Annealing Binding of one nucleic acid chain to another. Anthropogenic Global Climate Change It is the full range of climatic disruptions that have occurred as a probable result of human alteration of the atmosphere. In other words, it is recent climate warming—and weirdness—that is probably caused by human activities and technology use. Antibiotic Resistance A condition due to the presence of a plasmid in a cell that contains a gene that encodes a protein that inactivates an antibiotic. Cells containing this plasmid will be resistant, and therefore able to grow, in the presence of the antibiotic. Aqueous Solutions Solutions in which water is the solvent. Artificial Selection Deliberate mating between two individuals who were selected based on desired traits. Asexual Reproduction A type of reproduction where genetically identical offspring are created from a single parent. This type of reproduction does not utilize meiosis or gametes. Bacteria and fungi are examples of organisms that reproduce in this manner. Atom The basic unit of matter that cannot be further broken down without losing its unique properties. One atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by a cloud of electrons. The diagram below represents an atom of carbon. Atomic Mass Also known as the atomic weight, the approximate weight of an atom. The atomic mass, more specifically, is the mass of the nucleus which is the sum of the protons and neutrons in the nucleus. Atomic Number Number of protons in each atom, which is equal to the number of electrons in each atom--unless the atom is ionized. As seen in this diagram of an atom, lithium has three protons in its nucleus. Therefore the atomic number of lithium is 3. Autosomal Describes a trait associated with alleles located on autosomes (non sex chromosomes). Return to the top of the page. - B - Bases Substances that when dissolved in water reduce the concentration of hydronium (H3O+) ions. Bases are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) acceptors. Bases taste bitter and feel slippery. Soaps are common basic substances. Biodegradable Material Materials capable of natural decomposition and which break down into nutrients or elements that can be recycled. Biodegradable materials are more sustainable over time because they can be recycled in an ecosystem or biogeochemical cycle. Nonbiodegradable materials tend to accumulate over time and may cause negative environmental impacts. Biodiversity Biodiversity is simply the diversity of life in an area. Biogeochemical Cycles The processes that transfer chemical elements between biotic and abiotic components in an ecosystem. Biological Lineage A lineage is a group of populations that evolves independently of other groups. Biological Macromolecules Relatively large ("macro") molecules made by living organisms from smaller molecular building blocks. There are four classes of biological macromolecules: protiens, lipids, nucleic acids and polysaccharides/complex sugars. For example, starch is a biological macromolecule made by plants from smaller subunits, glucose; all proteins are made of amino acids, and nucleic acids are made from nucleotides. Biology The scientific study of life. Biology is a vast subject divided into many branches or subdivisions representing areas of specialization. Branches of biology include: anatomy, biochemistry, ecology, evolution, genetics, immunology, physiology, and many more. Biogenesis The principle that living things come only from other living things. Biomass The total amount (mass) of living organic materials within an ecosystem or the mass of all members of some specified group of organisms (e.g. producer biomass, insect biomass, etc.) Biosphere All areas on, within, and around the planet Earth that are capable of supporting life. Biotic An adjective that describes living organisms or their remains. Common characteristics of biotic (living) things are that they use energy and raw materials to grow, sense and respond to changing environments; they reproduce; and they consist of one or more cells. Biotic Cycling Cycling of chemicals among living organisms Buffers Solutions which resist changes in pH by acting as either an acid or a base. Blood is an example of a buffered solution. This means that if a small amount of acid or base is introduced to the bloodstream, components in your blood will neutralize the acid or base and the pH of your blood will change only very slightly. Return to the top of the page. - C - Carbohydrates An organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a certain proportion. The primary functions of carbohydrates are to: store energy, provide structure, and cell signaling and recognition. Common carbohydrates are sugars and starches. Carrying Capacity A stable population size. The maximum population size of a species that an environment can sustain over a long period of time, given the food, habitat, water and other necessities available in the environment. Catabolic Catabolic reactions break down larger, more complex molecules into smaller molecules and release energy in the process. Catalyst A substance that speeds up a chemical reaction, but is not itself chemically-altered in the process. A catalyst increases the rate of a reaction, by decreasing the activation energy required for the reaction to take place. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Cell The smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life. Cells are fluid-filled spaces bound by a membrane. When first formed, all cells include DNA and other macromolecules and are organized to grow, reproduce, and respond to changes in the external environment. Cell Cycle A series of phases in the life of the cell through which it grows and divides. Diagram depicting the cell cycle phases G1, Synthesis (S), and G2, collectively referred to as the Interphase (I). G0 corresponds to cells that do not divide further, such as some nerve cells. M (red) corresponds to mitosis, with the four phases of mitosis designated below in colors yellow, gold, tan, and orange. Cell Theory The theory that new cells are formed from other existing cells, and that the cell is a fundamental unit of structure, function, and organization in all living organisms. Cell Wall Protective and reinforcing structure found in certain cells, situated outside the plasma membrane. Bacterial cell walls are mainly built of peptidoglycan, although they may also contain lipidic molecules. Among eukaryotes, plants and fungi possess cell walls, made of cellulose and chitin, respectively. Cellular Respiration A metabolic pathway that uses stored chemical energy from foods (such as glucose) to build ATP. The overall equation for cellular respiration is: sugar + O2 → CO2 + H20 + energy Cellular Respiration Diagram An illustration of cellular respiration including glycolysis, Krebs cycle (also know as, citric acid cycle), and the electron transport chain. By RegisFrey (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Centrioles The place where the microtubules originate from during mitosis. Centrioles are contained within the centrosomes. Characteristics Heritable features, such as color and shape. Chemical Bonds Attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. There are three major types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: i) covalent, ii) ionic, and iii) hydrogen bonds. Covalent bonds occur when two atoms share electrons. Ionic bonds occur when two oppositely charged ions stick together. Chemical Energy The energy stored in chemical bonds. Chemical energy can be released when certain bonds are broken. Chemical energy is released when wood is burned: the bonds in the wood are broken, releasing light and heat energy. Chemical energy stored in ATP is used to run many cellular processes. Chemical energy stored in foods is used to build ATP. Shown here is the thermal motion of a segment of protein alpha helix. Molecules have various internal vibrational and rotational degrees of freedom. This is because molecules are complex objects; they are a population of atoms that can move about within a molecule in different ways. Heat energy is stored in molecules’ internal motions which gives them an internal temperature. Even though these motions are called “internal,” the external portions of molecules still move—rather like the jiggling of a water balloon. By GregL (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Chemical Reaction A chemical change in which new molecules are formed from existing molecules. A chemical reaction (i.e., a transformation) may break up a large molecule resulting into two or more smaller molecules; or, the reaction may combine molecules forming a new substance. Examples of chemical reactions you may recognize are: rust forming through the reaction of oxygen in the air with iron; or, silver tarnish resulting from the reaction of silver with moisture in the air. Chemical Structures Representations of a molecule showing arrangement of atoms and chemical bonds. Simple structures represent atoms by one leter symbols and covalent bonds by lines. Three-dimensional structures represent arrangment of atoms and bonds in three-dimensional space. For example, water can be represented by any of the following structures: H-O-H and 3D representations. Chemistry The study of matter and its structure, properties, and reactions. Understanding the basic principles of chemistry is vitally important in studying biology, as many biological interactions involve chemistry. Chlorophyll A plant pigment used to absorb light energy for photosynthesis. Chlorophyll gives plants their green color because it absorbs red and blue light particularly well, while reflecting green. Chloroplast An organelle found in plants and photosynthetic protists (single-Celled eukaryotic organisms) which contain pigments such as chlorophyl. Its primary function is to capture solar energy and convert it into chemical energy through the process of photosynthesis. Chloroplast absorbs sunlight energy and uses the energy to power the synthesis of organic food molecules (sugars). A chloroplast contains its own DNA as a single circular chromosome. Cholesterol A molecule in the steroid family of lipids that includes four fused carbon rings. Cholesterol has many function: used to build steroid hormones; precursor to vitamins D and K; some may be converted to bile salts facilitating the absorption of fats by the digestive system; and, used by animals to maintain the proper consistency of cell membranes. Chromatin A combination of DNA and proteins that constitutes chromosomes. The term chromatin is used to refer to the extended form taken by the chromosomes when a eukaryotic cell is not dividing. When the cells divide, chromatin condenses and becomes visible as chromosomes. Chromosome Tightly coiled form of the DNA-protein complex. A thread-like structure of nucleic acids carrying genetic information in the form of genes. Chromosomes are found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell and in the nucleoid region of a prokaryotic cell. Cilum (plural: cilia) A short hair-like appendage on the cell surface. It functions to move the cell from one place to another; or, to move fluids and particles across the cell surface. It can be found on certain eukaryotic cells, such as the cells of the respiratory system. Clade A clade is composed of a common ancestor and all species that descend from this common ancestor. A clade forms a distinct branch on the tree of life. Climate Change Adaptation Actions humans take to prepare for future changes in climate and minimize harm to humans and ecosystems. It is the effort to make humans and ecosystems less vulnerable to the effects of ongoing and future climate change. Climate Change Mitigation The effort to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or increase the rate at which they are removed from the air, thereby slowing the pace and reducing the severity of climate change. Clones The genetically identical offspring produced from asexual reproduction. Codominant A gene where two different alleles are both expressed in the heterozygous condition. Codon A sequence of three nucleotides in an mRNA molecule that specifies which amino acid should be added to a growing polypeptide chain. Codon Optimization Due to degeneracy in the genetic code, more than one codon can code for the same amino acid. Different organisms prefer one codon over another. The process of codon optimization is the use of prefered codons when designing a gene to be expressed in a certain organism. Cohesion Describes a property of matter in which particles tend to stick together. Liquid water is cohesive and forms spherical droplets because of its hydrogen bonds which attract the individual water molecules to each other. Combustion A chemical reaction between a chemical and oxygen that releases heat and light quickly. Unlike cellular respiration, combustion is not a viable option for organisms to extract chemical energy. Cars run using an internal combustion engine. Photo by Andy Dingley (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Community All of the populations interacting with each other within a specified area. Community Interaction How populations of different species interact with and effect each other within a defined area constituting an ecological community. Competition A type of interspecific interaction where both species are harmed. Concentration Gradient An increase or decrease in the density of a chemical substance within a given region. Cells often maintain concentration gradients of hydrogen ions across their membranes. When a gradient exists, the ions or other chemical substances involved tend to move from where they are more concentrated to where they are less concentrated. Condensation A chemical reaction where two chemicals are bound together. The formation of the bond between these two chemicals often releases water. Basic amino acid condensation. By Rik van der Lingen(Wikipedia) Public Domain Consumer An organism that must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms. Consumers get their energy and nutrients from such food molecules. Humans and other animals are consumers, as are fungi and most bacteria. Control Group A group of subjects in an experiment that does not receive the treatment to be evaluated, but is otherwise similar to the experimental group. The control group provides a strong basis for comparison, demonstrating what happens in the absence of the factor being tested. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, experimenters would predict that the control group subjects—those who did not receive the drug—would not be cured over the course of the study. Control Variable Any variable in an experiment that is kept the same between the control and experimental groups. For example, in a study to test a drug, the control and experimental groups would each contain subjects (people) of similar ages and similar numbers of men and women. Additionally, scientists may also put all of the study participants on the same diet and exercise plan. Covalent Bonds Chemical bonds that form molecules and are a result of sharing of electrons; electrons can be shared equally (non-polar covalent) or unequally (polar covalent). In the diagram below that illustrates the formation of a methane molecule, the carbon atom shares each of its four (4) valence electrons with one hydrogen atom, which in turn shares its one valence electron with the carbon atom. Crossing-over Crossing over is a process in which genes swap positions between chromatids of homologous chromosomes during Prophase I of meiosis. The result of crossing over is a new combination of genes on each chromosome and leads to increased genetic diversity. Cytokinesis The division of the cytoplasm of a cell at the end of mitosis to form two separate daughter cells. In animals cells, this occurs through the pinching of the membrane at the center of the parental cell while in plants, this occurs through the formation of a cell plate as new cell wall forms to separate the daughter cells. Cytoplasm The substance that fills the inside contents of a cell between the plasma membrane and the nucleus. Contains a semifluid medium, composed mainly of water, and organelles (organelles are present only if it is a eukaryotic cell). Return to the top of the page. - D - Denatured State The state in which unfolded protein chains become entangled with one another. Extreme temperature and pH are two causes of protein denaturation. Dependent Variable An effect; a variable that is thought to change as a result or consequence of some other variable. In an experiment, a dependent variable is used to describe the result, or outcome. For example, in a study to test a drug, the dependent variable might be the proportion of subjects that are cured at the end of the study. Development Change in structure and function that occurs in an orderly way as an organism passes through its life cycle. Dietary Fiber Indigestible carbohydrates, which cannot be degraded by human digestive enzymes but that still play important roles in maintaining health. Cellulose, which is a major component of cell walls, is one of the largest contributors to dietary fiber. Diffusion The spontaneous movement of particles of any kind down a concentration gradient; that is, movement of particles from where they are more concentrated to where they are less concentrated. Dihybrid Cross Cross between two organisms that are each heterozygous for two distinct genes. Diploid Referring to cells that contain two sets of chromosomes (i.e. pairs of homologous chromosomes). One set of chromosomes is inherited from the mother and the other set is inherited from the father. Diploid cells are 2n. Somatic and germ cells are diploid. Disaccharide A carbohydrate made of two monosaccharides linked together by a covalent bond. Two common disaccharides are sucrose and lactose. glucose + fructose = Sucrose (table sugar) glucose + galactose = Lactose (milk sugar) DNA: Deoxyribonucleic Acid The nucleic acid that contains genetic instructions for making RNA and, ultimately, proteins in all living organisms. DNA is composed of two strands of nucleotides, which are intertwined in a double helix. DNA Ligase An enzyme that will bind to DNA fragments held together by sticky ends and reform the phosphodiester bond between the two DNA fragments. DNA Polymerase Enzyme involved in DNA replication, recognizes the primer and adds nucleotides to the 3’ end of the primer. DNA Replication Synthesis of a new DNA double helix. It is the process by which a cell, when dividing, makes a copy of its DNA by an enzyme-catalyzed reaction. Each strand in the existing double helix is used as a template strand to build a new DNA strand. The result of DNA replication is that the daughter cells produced in cell division have the same DNA as the original cell. Dominant Describes a trait that is expressed (manifested as a phenotype) even when only one copy of the allele encoding the trait is present in the genotype. Return to the top of the page. - E - Ecological Community The collection of all interacting species populations within some defined area. Ecosystem All the living (biotic) things in a particular area together with the abiotic (nonliving) materials and conditions in that area; i.e., a biological community and its physical environment. Electron Negatively charged subatomic particle that occupies shells surrounding the nucleus and has a mass that is so small it is considered to be zero. Electronegativity The tendancy of an atom to hold shared electrons more close to its nucleus. Atoms like oxygen have a high electronegativity. This means when oxygen forms a covalent bond with an atom of lower electronegativity, the shared electrons will stay closer to the oxygen atom than to the other atom. Strongly electronegative atoms bonded to weakly electronegative hydrogen atoms, in a molecule, result in hydrogen bonding. The most important strongly electronegative elements in biological systems are oxygen and nitrogen. Elements Matter consisting entirely of atoms with the same number of protons. There are 92 elements found in nature. Hydrogen, with one proton, is the most common element in the universe. Emergent Properties Characteristics of a system that do not appear in any one of its component parts alone, but that appear when all parts are combined. Enantiomers An important aspect of carbon bonding is the fact that carbon can covalently bond to four groups and that the bonding geometry of the carbon atom is tetrahedral. Therefore, if the four groups attached to the carbon are different, then two unique arrangements of the groups around the carbon atom are possible and this carbon is said to be an asymmetric center or a chiral center. The two arrangements of groups about the carbon are mirror images of each other and these two structures are referred to as enantiomers. It is impossible to superimpose these two mirror images, consequently they are distinct molecules. Endocytosis The movement of materials into the cytoplasm of a cell via vesicles or vacuoles. Endomembrane System A term for a set of membranous structures found in eukaryotic cells that are related to the synthesis, packaging, and distribution of cellular molecules. It encompasses the endoplasmic reticulum (rough and smooth), the Golgi apparatus, and vesicles. Endotherms Organisms that maintain internal body temperature using their own metabolism; for example animals that live in cold polar regions, like penguins, whales, and seals. These are all examples of animals with thick insulating “blubber” beneath the skin. Energy The capacity to do work. Work is any change that won’t happen on its own. Work can involve movement, building larger molecules, increasing the concentration of chemicals, increasing the temperature of an object, making a sound, or even glowing (bioluminescence). All living things need energy to run the processes required for life. Energy Pyramid A diagram that shows the energy available at each trophic level in an ecosystem. The pattern of energy flow in an ecosystem from producers (bottom of the pyramid) to the highest trophic level consumer (levels 2 and up) -- where only about 10% of the available energy in one trophic level is incorporated and stored as calories in the bodies of the next level up. The result of this is a pyramid in which energy availability decreases as the trophic levels increase. Remember that any energy not transferred to the next higher trophic level is released as undigested materials in feces or is dissipated as heat. Enzyme A protein that acts as a catalyst for chemical reactions in biological organisms. Enzymes increase the speed of chemical reactions. They are proteins that bind to a chemical (called a substrate) and chemically modify the substrate into an end product. The substrate binds to the active site of the enzyme. Enzymes speed up the rate of chemical reactions that support life. Epigenetics Epigenetics is the study of heritable changes in gene expression or cellular phenotype that are not the result of changes in the underlying DNA sequence (i.e., mutations) but rather through different mechanisms (e.g., DNA methylation or histone remodeling). Epistasis A single trait involving multiple genes where the effect of one gene can mask the effect of a different gene. Eukaryotic Cells A type of cell that has a membrane-enclosed nucleus and other membrane-enclosed structures (called organelles) such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, cytoskeleton, and the Golgi apparatus. All organisms except bacteria and archaea are composed of eukaryotic cells (also referred to as eukaryotes); that is, all species of animal, plants and fungi are composed of eukaryotic cells. Evolution A scientific theory explaining how and why genetic changes occur in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time. Exocytosis The movement of materials out of the cytoplasm of a cell via membranous vesicles or vacuoles. Experimental Group A group of subjects in an experiment that receives the treatment to be evaluated. If the hypothesis is correct, the dependent variable will change in a predictable way within the experimental group. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, a high proportion of those in the experimental group would be cured or helped by the treatment, if the hypothesis is correct. Expression Plasmid A circular double stranded DNA molecule that contains all of the necessary DNA sequences to allow for maintenance of the plasmid as well as the production of mRNA from genes inserted into the plasmid. Return to the top of the page. - F - F1 Generation First filial offspring of the parents; the first generation of offspring; the first child of a parent. F2 Generation Second filial generation; offspring of the F1 generation; grandchild of a parent. Facilitated Diffusion The passage diffusion of a substance across a biological membrane down its concentration gradient, aided by specific transport proteins. Fatty Acids One of the two types of molecules that combine to form triglycerides (fats and oils). Fatty acids are unbranched hydrocarbons that terminate with a single carboxyl functional group. The fatty acids are generally 16-22 carbons long and can be both saturated and unsaturated. Fermentation Fermentation breaks down organic molecules and stores energy as ATP. Fermentation reactions do not require oxygen, and they do not break down all glucose fully to carbon dioxide. Instead, they end with organic molecules that still contain considerable chemical potential energy. Such pathways produce only a tiny amount of ATP compared to aerobic cellular respiration. Fermentation can produce a variety of end products including lactic acid, ethanol, and others. Flagellum (plural flagella) - A long whip-like projection used in moving the cell from one place to another. It can be found in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. A cell may have one or more flagella. Food Chain A group of organisms that are joined in a linear series of feeding relationships starting with the producer and moving up the trophic levels. An example would be grass to grasshopper to rat to owl: grass → grasshopper → rat → owl Food Web A diagram showing all feeding relationships in a community; emphasizes the complexity of real communities which generally have many overlapping and interconnected food chains. Depiction of the food web associated with freshwater wetlands. By Mark Sharp (EPA) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons Foundation Species A species that are physically dominant (largest and/or most abundant) in communities. Functional Groups Smaller groups of atoms within a larger molecule that have a particular characteristic or function. Functional groups give a molecule its characteristics and participate in predictable chemical reactions. Return to the top of the page. - G - Gamete A haploid, sex cell (egg or sperm) produced from germ cells that have undergone meiosis. When two gametes join in fertilization the resulting zygote is a complete diploid cell. Gene A segment of DNA that carries specific information, ultimately coding for a protein, which determines certain traits in an organism. The gene is the basic unit of inheritance. It is a segment of DNA with instructions for protein synthesis. Genes are located on DNA stands, and each gene is composed of a specific nucleotide sequence that codes for the amino acid sequence of a protein. Gene Expression Transcription of information encoded in a gene into RNA and eventually a polypeptide chain. It is the process by which information coded in a gene is accessed and used to produce RNA and proteins. Gene Flow The result of fertile members of a species moving into or out of a population. Gene Pool All of the genes and alleles present in a population at some point in time. Genetic Drift The change in a gene pool as a result of random chance. Genome All the genetic information in an organism. The complete DNA sequence of one set of chromosomes from an organism. Genotype Alleles (i.e., one version of a gene) present in an organism. Germ Cell A cell that in the body of a sexually reproducing organism that produces gametes (eggs or sperm) through meiosis. Germ cells are immature reproductive cells. In humans, germ cells are found in the testes of men and ovaries of women. Glycogen A polysaccharide that is stored in the liver and is composed of glucose molecules linked together. Excess glycogen is converted to fat. When food intake is insufficient, glycogen can be broken down into glucose for energy. Golgi Apparatus An organelle in eukaryotic cells consisting of stacks of membranous sacs that modify, store, and ship products of the endoplasmic reticulum. Greenhouse Effect A phenomenon in which greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere support heat retention and serve to maintain warm and relatively stable surface temperatures. Certain gases warm the climate by absorbing and re-emitting heat radiation, keeping temperatures warmer and more stable near the planet’s surface. Humans have strengthened this effect by adding extra greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Some results have included increased temperatures, increased sea level, increasingly variable weather, melting ice and permafrost, increasing droughts, shifts in species distributions, and shifts in the timing of seasonal events. Greenhouse Gas Greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat waves (infrared radiation). Three important greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4). Much of the heat (infrared) radiation that leaves Earth’s surface is absorbed by greenhouse gases and reemitted back toward Earth. As a result, these gases retain heat in the atmosphere. Instead of escaping immediately to space, heat is delayed near the Earth’s surface and continues to warm our atmosphere. Growth Increase in size of an organism. Biological growth, unlike the growth of a glacier or a mountain, is not merely an increase in size; it also involves the reorganization of materials into the unique structures of the organism. Return to the top of the page. - H - Habitat Loss Human activities destroy or change a habitat so that it no longer supports the growth and reproduction of a species. This is widely acknowledged as the most important direct threat to biodiversity worldwide. Habitats that have been profoundly changed by human activities include forests (clearing), grasslands (plowing and overgrazing), rivers (damming), and wetlands (draining). Haploid Cells that contain only one set of chromosomes. Haploid cells are referred to as "1n". Gametes (sperm and eggs) are haploid. In human haploid gametes contain 23 chromosomes. Heterozygous Having two different alleles for a trait present. Homeostasis The tendency of organisms and cells to maintain stable internal conditions. The term comes from the Greek words homeo (same, alike) and stasis (standing). Homologous Refers to two chromosomes that are a matched pair in a diploid cell. A matched pair of chromosomes are the same length and contain genes for the same characteristics at the same position on them. For each homologous pair, one chromosome is inherited from the mother and the other is inherited from the father. Homologous Features Shared features/traits that were inherited from the same source and reflect common ancestry. Remember these features/traits are based in genes (not acquired through learning or the environment). Homologue Refers to one of the other of a homologous pair of chromosomes. Each is considered the homologue of the other. Homozygous Both alleles present are identical. Hydrogen Bonds Hydrogen bond (H-bond) is an interaction between a partially positive hydrogen atom and a partially negative atom with unshared (lone) pair of electrons. In order for hydrogen to have sufficient partial positive charge, hydrogen must be covalently attached to a very electronegative atom (O, N, P). Partially negative atom with lone pair of electrons must also be a highly electronegative atom like oxygen or nitrogen. Hydrogen Ion Hydrogen ions (denoted H+) are hydrogen atoms that have had their electrons removed. What remains is only a single proton. Hydrolysis A chemical reaction where a molecule is split into two molecules. The breaking of this bond requires breaking a water molecule. Diagram showing the enzymatic hydrolysis of lactose to D-galactose and D-glucose by the action of the enzyme lactase. By Edgar181, Wikipedia. Public Domain Hydrophilic Substances that dissolve in or are attracted to water. Hydrophilic (from Greek meaning "water-loving") refers to molecules that are water soluble. Hydrophilic molecules contain polar functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds with water. Ionic and polar substances are hydrophilic. Hydrophobic Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Hypertonic In comparing two solutions, hypertonic refers to the one with the greater concentration of solutes. Hypothesis A proposed explanation of an observation; often referred to as an “educated guess.” In the process of the scientific method, a hypothesis is tested through experimentation and/or observation. Hypotonic In comparing two solutions, hypotonic refers to the one with the lower concentration of solutes. Return to the top of the page. - I - Incomplete Dominant A gene where the dominant allele is not expressed as strongly in the heterozygote as in the homozygous dominant condition. Independent Variable A cause or factor; a variable that is thought to cause another variable to change. In an experiment, an independent variable is deliberately changed in one group at the beginning of the study. For example, in a study to test a drug, one group might be given the drug and another group would not; the independent variable in this example would be whether patients were given the drug. Indirect Interaction A type of community interaction where the effect of one species on another is exerted through one or more additional species acting as intermediaries. This is sometimes referred to as the "ripple effect". Inhibitor To “inhibit” means to restrain or hinder. Inhibitors reduce the activity of enzymes or other proteins. Inorganic Any substance lacking molecules that contain a carbon atom bonded to a hydrogen atom. Examples of common inorganic substances are: water, oxygen gas, carbon dioxide and ionic salts. Integral Proteins A protein that completely spans the plasma membrane. The protein has regions that are hydrophilic and hydrophobic. Interphase The stage of the cell cycle when division (mitosis) does not occur. During interphase, the cell grows, acquires nutrients, and replicates both its chromosomes as well as its organelles. Interphase consists of the G1 (chromosomes condense), S (DNA duplicates), and G2 (DNA integritiy checked and repaired) phases of the cell cycle. Cells spend the majority of their time in interphase. Diagram depicting the cell cycle phases G1, S, and G2, collectively referred to as the Interphase (I). Interspecific Interaction An effect of one population on another in a community; any interaction between members of different species. This is a type of community interaction and has three subtypes: mutualism, predation, and competition. Introduced Species Non-native species that are introduced in new habitats and compete--often out-compete--species native to the habitat. Humans move species out of their natural range and into a new area. The new species prey upon, compete with, change habitat for, or otherwise harm native species, resulting in their extinction. This is a particularly important threat on islands and other isolated habitats, where introduced predators may decimate native prey species that are not adapted to their presence. Ion An atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and consequently has a positive or a negative charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. Ionic Bond An attractive force generated by the interactions between ions of opposite charges. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. In the formation of an ionic bond, electrons are said to be transferred from one atom to another. Isotonic Having the same solute concentration as another solution. Isotopes Two atoms with the same atomic number (because they are the same element and have the same number of protons), but different atomic mass (because they have different numbers of neutrons). Carbon-12 (the number after the hyphen, 12 in this example, indicates the atomic mass), which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons and Carbon-13, which has 6 protons and 7 neutrons are two isotopes of carbon. Return to the top of the page. - K - Karyotype Diagrammatic representation of an organism's genome. An image of the chromosomes of a cell in metaphase where the chromosomes are arranged in pairs by centromere position and size. Karyotypes are used to count and analyze the chromosomes of an individual and can also be used in the determination of chromosomal abnormalities. Keystone Species A species that has an unexpectedly strong effect on the stability or diversity of a community that is much larger than its abundance or biomass would suggest. Kinetic Energy The energy of motion -- illustrated by the jumping stick figure below. By P. Fraundorf (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Kinetochore Proteins on the centromere where microtubules attach. These attached microtubules are called kinetochore microtubules. Return to the top of the page. - L- Lac Operator A segment of DNA that is recognized by the lac repressor protein. When the lac repressor protein is bound to the operator, no mRNA is made from the genes that encode lactose metabolism. Lac Repressor A protein, produced by the lacI gene, that binds to the lac repressor DNA sequence, regulating the transcription of genes required for lactose metabolism. The repressor is bound to the operator in the absense of lactose, and released from the operator when lactose is present. Law of Independent Assortment Each pair of alleles segregates separately of any other pair of alleles when gametes are formed. Law of Segregation States that the two alleles for each gene separate from each other when gametes form, so that each gamete contains one allele of each gene. Ligand An atom, ion, or molecule that binds to another, usually larger chemical structure, to form a complex. Lipids Organic marcromolecules that are largely nonpolar (electrons are evenly distributed amongst atoms in a molecule) and as a result are hydrophobic (“water-fearing”). Lipids perform many functions in the cell including: storage of energy for long-term use in the form of fats, insulation from the environment, and building blocks for hormones. Lipids include fats, oils, waxes, phospholipids, and steroids. Return to the top of the page. - M - Macroevolution A change in a biological lineage including the origin or extinction of species. This is evolution beyond the species level. Macromolecule A large and complex molecule formed by combining smaller subunits producing a larger unit consisting of many atoms with new properties. Biological macromolecules are special large macromolecules produced by living organisms that contain carbon atoms covalently bonded to hydrogen atoms. There are four main types of biological macromolecules (sometimes referred to as biomolecules or biomacromolecules) that you will be learning about in this course: carbohydrates, nucleic acids, lipids, and proteins. Matter Anything that occupies space and has mass. The substance, consisting of atoms and subatomic particles, composing all physical objects. Meiosis A type of cell division in which a single, diploid germ cell is divided into four, haploid gamete cells. Meiosis only occurs in organisms that sexually reproduce and results in the production of sperm in males and eggs in females. Meiosis II The second half of the whole process of meiosis in which the sister chromatids in each of the two haploid cells produced during meiosis I are separated. Meiosis II results in the production of four haploid gamate cells and is similar in process to mitosis. Messenger RNA (mRNA) The type of RNA molecules that contain instructions for making a protein. Metabolic Pathways Metabolism is the sum of all chemical activity within a living organism; it is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical conversions, each of which is catalyzed (generally speeded up, but sometimes slowed down) by an enzyme (protein catalyst). Cellular respiration and fermentation are metabolic pathways that break down chemicals, such as glucose to build ATP. Photosynthesis is a metabolic pathway that uses light energy to build carbohydrates. Metaphase This is a stage of mitosis where the sister chromatids connected by centromeres are lined up along the plane of the cell's center (called the metaphase plate). Microevolution Occurs when the type or frequency of the alleles and genotypes in a population change over one to many generations of time Microorganism A life form that cannot be seen with the naked eye; also called a microbe. Microorganisms include bacteria, many single-celled eukaryotes (plants, animals, fungi, and small creatures called protists), and even some multicellular life forms. Microtubules One type of fiber that makes up the cytoskeleton of a eukaryotic cell. Microtubules consist of proteins called tubulins. Microtubules aide in cell structure and movement and are also responsible for moving the chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis. Mitochondrion (pl. mitochondria) - the powerhouse of eukaryotic cell; the organelle whose primary function is to perform cellular respiration, to convert chemical energy into a form that can be used directly by the cell -- Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP). Enclosed by two concentric membranes, it is where most of the cell's ATP is made. A mitochondrion contains its own DNA as a single circular chromosome. Mitosis A type of cellular division in which a single, diploid, somatic cell is divided into two genetically identical daughter cells. Mitosis along with cytokinesis compose the mitotic (M) phase of the cell cycle. Mitotic Phase The phase in which the cell first divides its nucleus and then the cytoplasm. Molecule Two or more atoms held together by a chemical bond. Composition and size are two charateristics of a molecule. The diagram below illustrates a molecule of methane (CH4) consisting of four hydrogen (H) atoms covalently bonded to one carbon (C) atom. Methane is a small molecule composed of 5 atoms. Other molecules, such as polysaccharides or proteins, may be humongous containing thousands of atoms bonded together. Other characteristics of a molecule are the structure (three dimensional shape), chemical reactivitiy, and solvency. Molecular Formula Representation of atomic composition of a molecule. Molecular formula tells us what atoms and how many of them make up the molecule, but does not tell us anything about arrangement of the atoms (see related term molecular/chemical structure). Examples: the molecular formula of water is H2O, carbon dioxide is CO2, and sugar glucose is C6H12O6. Monomer A small organic molecule that may bind chemically to other molecules to form a polymer. A monomer is a repeating structural unit of a polymer. For example, glucose is a monomer that makes up polysaccharide starch, and amino acids are monomers that make up proteins. Monohybrid Cross Cross between two organisms, each of which is heterozygous for the trait. Monosaccharide A simple sugar (carbohydrate) containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms in a 1:2:1 ratio respectively. Some common monosaccharides are glucose, fructose, and ribose. Mutation Changes to the DNA nucleotide sequence. A permanent, irreversible, and heritable change in DNA. Mutualism A type of interspecific interaction where both species benefit. Return to the top of the page. - N - Natural Selection A process by which nature (i.e. the environment and all of its components) impacts the evolution of a population. Neutral Substances that are neutral, like pure water, have equal concentrations of hydrogen (H+) and hydroxide (OH-) ions. Neutralization The process of combining an acid with a base, in which the hydrogen ion/proton (H+) that was associated with water (as a hydronium ion, H3O+) combines with the hydroxide ion (OH-) to produce water (HOH). The general form of a neutralization reaction is: acid + base → salt + water Neutron Subatomic particle with a neutral charge that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Nitrogenous Base A molecule that is one of the three components that make a nucleotide. There are five bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), thymine (T), and uracil (U). The DNA structure consist of four bases: A, C, G, and T. The RNA molecule contains the bases: A, C, G, and U. Non-Polar Amino Acid An amino acid with non-polar side chains contain, primarily, hydrocarbons and no polar functional groups containing electronegative atoms. Note that the term “non-polar” refers only to the side chain, while the amino acid as a whole is charged at physiological pH due to the carboxyl and amino groups. Non-polar Functional Groups Functional groups of a molecule that do not contain an electronegative atom; therefore, the functional group is non-polar. An example is a methy group -CH3. Nondisjunction The failure of sister chromatids or homologous chromosomes to separate during anaphase of either mitosis or meiosis. Nucleic Acids Organic macromolecules, built from nucleotides, that carry out two main functions in the cell: storage of genetic information and synthesis of proteins. DNA and RNA are both nucleic acids. Nucleoid A specific region in the cytoplasm of a prokaryotic cell where genetic material (DNA) is stored. Nucleosomes A packaging unit of DNA in a eukaryotic cell consisting of DNA wound around a protein core composed of eight histone molecules. Nucleotides Molecules that make up the individual structural sub-units of the nucleic acids RNA and DNA. Each nucleotide is made up of three components: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. Nucleus (plural, nuclei) The word nucleus is used in two different contexts in the study of biology. Loosely defined, nucleus means "center" or "core." Here, in a study of basic chemistry, nucleus means "the center of an atom." In this case, the nucleus is a central area in which the atom’s heavy particles (protons and neutrons) are packed close together. When discussing cell structure, the word nucleus refers to the central organelle of the eukaryotic cell. It consists of the cell’s DNA enclosed in a double-layered membrane and can be thought of as the “command center” of the eukaryotic cell. Nutrients Forms of matter that an organism requires and that the organism cannot make for itself. Nutrients must be taken in from the outside environment. Humans obtain nutrients from the food we eat and the water we drink. Plants take up nutrients through their roots (water and dissolved minerals) and from the air (carbon dioxide gas). Return to the top of the page. - O - Operon Collection of genes that are transcribed on the same mRNA from a single promoter. Usually, all of the genes code for enzymes in a single biochemical pathway, allowing coordinated control of the expression of all of the enzymes in one pathway. Organ A collection of tissues grouped together based on a common general function. Some common organs in the human body are the heart, lungs, and kidneys. Organ System Functionally-related organs that work together to carry out a function throughout an organism’s body. Your body is made up of many organ systems, including the skeletal, digestive, and circulatory systems. Organelle A specialized structure within a cell formed when a specific set of molecules bond, creating a subunit that has a specific function. Most, but not all, organelles are enclosed by a membrane. In eukaryotes, organelles are membrane-bound compartments that contain specific groups of macromolecules that carry out specific cellular functions. Although, prokaryotes are less complex than eukaryotes, they contain subunits (non-membrane bound structures) that perform specific functions, such as the flagellum and the ribosome. Organic Molecules Molecules containing a carbon atom that is covalently bonded to a hydrogen atom (C-H bonds). Many organic molecules also contain oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. All living organisms are composed of four major classes of large carbon-containing molecules: proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids. The term organic is in common use these days. For example, you can buy organically grown tomatoes or clothes made from organically grown cotton. In these cases, organic refers to the way the tomatoes and cotton were grown — without the use of man-made pesticides or fertilizers, and nurtured only by natural substances. Here, organic is used to denote a natural process. You can see then that the word organic is used in two different ways. Be careful not to confuse the two. It can also be said that organic molecules (such as carbon-containing proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids) are natural molecules. But not all naturally-occurring molecules contain carbon, for example, water and common table salt. Are water and salt naturally occurring? Yes. But are they organic? No, because they are not built from carbon. Organism An organism is an individual living entity that survives and reproduces as a unit. Examples include a single bacterial cell, a plant grown from a single seed, or you—as an individual human being. Any life form - animal, plant, fungus, bacteria, protist, or single-celled entity. Origin of Replication A sequence of DNA that serves as a binding site for proteins involved in initiating DNA replication. Osmosis The diffusion of water across a selectively permeable membrane. Overharvesting Human harvesting—hunting, fishing, logging, gathering, and so on — removes individuals more quickly than they can be replaced by natural reproduction. This was historically a major threat in North America and Europe, but today most fish and wildlife resources are fairly well-protected. Open ocean fisheries and tropical mammals, by contrast, are heavily impacted by human harvesting today. Return to the top of the page. - P - P Generation Parental generation. Passive Transport The diffusion of a substance across a biological membrane without any input of energy. Pedigree Mapping or charting of a family history, showing the occurrence of a trait or characteristic. Mated individuals are connected by a horizontal line, and children are connected to them by vertical branches extending down from the line. Individuals expressing a genetic trait are shaded; and, individuals not expressing the trait are not shaded. Maps used to trace genetic traits through generations of individuals. Symbols: Males are squares. Females are circles. Peptide Bond A covalent bond that links amino acids together to form proteins. Produced when the carboxyl group of one amino acid reacts with the amino group of another amino acid. Peripheral Proteins A protein loosely bound to the surface of the plasma membrane. Periodic Chart A tabular categorization of all of the elements arranged in order of increasing atomic number. Also called the Periodic Table, the table is organized such that elements with similar properties are grouped in the same column (called a chemical group) and elements with the same number of electron shells appear in the same row (called a period). Periodic table of the chemical elements. By Cepheus [ Public Domain] via Wikimedia Commons. pH A measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in a solution. Solutions with a pH less than 7 are acidic. Solutions with a pH of 7 are neutral. Solutions with a pH greater than 7 are basic. A one-point change in pH is equal to a ten-fold difference in the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+). Phenotype Physical or physiological characteristic present; also defined as the manifestation of the genes in an organism. Photosynthesis A metabolic pathway that uses light energy to build carbohydrates from CO2. The overall equation for photosynthesis is: CO2 + H20 + light → sugar + O2 Phospholipid Bilayer Membrane A double layer of phospholipid molecules (each molecule consisting of a phosphate group bonded to two fatty acids) that is the primary component of all cellular membranes. Phylogenetic Tree Phylogenetic tree (also called phylogeny), is a tree diagram that represents a hypothesis as to how a biological lineage may have branched and formed clades over time. Remember that as a hypothesis, phylogenetic trees are subject to change as more data are gathered and as analysis techniques improve. A phylogenetic tree of living things, based on RNA data and proposed by Carl Woese, showing the separation of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. By Eric Gaba, NASA Astrobiology Institute. [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons Physical Disturbance Humans reshape the physical structure of ecosystems by clearing forests, suppressing or setting fires, building roads and cities, mining, maintaining croplands, and building water control structures such as dams. This leads to biodiversity loss. It may also increase our exposure to forest fires, floods, droughts, soil erosion, landslides, and other physical hazards. Pigment Pigments are colored substances that absorb light energy. Different colored pigments absorb different wavelengths of light. The color of the pigment that we see is the wavelength that the pigment reflects (and does not absorb). The light energy absorbed by these pigments can be converted to chemical energy in the process of photosynthesis. Placebo A substance having no medicinal benefit that is administered to the control group in a study so that these study participants do no know if they are in the control or experimental group. Placebos in drug trials are often sugar pills or a vitamin formulated to look like the drug being tested. Interestingly, sometimes patients taking a placebo will report that they notice an improvement in the medical condition the drug is designed to treat or even experience a real medical improvement all because they think they are taking the new drug. This phenomenon is called the placebo effect. Plasma Membrane A structure surrounding all types of cells, separating it from the external environment. It constitutes a semipermeable boundary, where certain substances can cross and others cannot. Chemically, the plasma membrane (also called the cell membrane) is a double layer of phospholipids (phospholipid bilayer) in which proteins, and sometimes sterols, are embedded. Pleiotropy Single gene with multiple effects. Polar Amino Acid An amino acid with polar side chains contain polar uncharged groups, for example amide and hydroxyl. Polar Covalent Bond A covalent bond that forms between a highly electronegative atom (e.g. N and O) and a non-highly electronegative atom. This results in an uneven distribution of the charge (because the electrons spend more time around the electronegative atom) causing one end of the bond to have a more positive charge on the end with the non-electronegative atom and a more negative charge on the end with the electronegative atom. Polar Functional Groups Functional groups that contain an electronegative atom rendering the functional group polar. Examples are the hydroxyl group (-OH), carboxylic acids, and amino groups(-NH3+). Pollution Materials released or discarded by humans that harm human health or life in ecosystems. Wastes generated by human activities change habitat conditions or threaten the health of organisms directly. Nutrient pollution, for example, is a global problem that harms the diversity of aquatic and some terrestrial communities. Pollution of the atmosphere by greenhouse gases generates climate change, a problem so complex and severe that it is often counted as a separate threat category. Polygenic A single trait resulting from the interaction of multiple genes. Polymer These are large molecules consisting of repeating structural units, or monomers, connected by covalent chemical bonds. Larger organic molecules (macromolecules) consist of a carbon/oxygen/nitrogen skeleton (backbone) with other atoms branching off from this structure. Polysaccharide A carbohydrate consisting of long chains of monosaccharides. Some common polysaccharides are starch, glycogen, and cellulose. Population All the individuals of a single species living within the same area and are likely to breed with one another. Potential Energy Stored energy. Energy stored in chemical bonds (chemical energy) is a type of potential energy. Potential energy can be released to do work. In the illustration below, when the spring is coiled it has potential energy. The potential energy is released when the spring stretches. By Matthias Kabel (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Predation A type of interspecific interaction where one species (predator) kills and eats the other species (prey). Principle of Dominance States that some traits are dominant and can mask recessive traits. Producers Organisms that make simple organic food molecules from inorganic raw materials using light energy from the sun and do not consume other living organisms to obtain nutrients. Producers make up trophic level 1 in most ecosystems. Plants, algae, and cyanobacteria are examples of producers. Prokaryotic Cell A type of cell (also called prokaryotes) lacking a nucleus and other membrane-bound organelles. Prokaryotic cells are unicellular organism found only in the domains bacteria and archaea. Promoter The sequence of DNA to which RNA polymerase binds. Prophase This is the first stage of mitosis. In prophase, the nucleus is broken down, the chromosomes (duplicated during the S phase of the cell cycle) condense, and the mitotic spindles form. Proteins Organic macromolecules made up of amino acids connected by peptide bonds. Proteins serve many functions, some of which include: catalyzing reactions as enzymes, storage, replication, transmission, and regulation of genetic information, and helping maintain structure in an organism. Proton A positively charged subatomic particle that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Punnett Square Table method used to assess probabilities of outcomes in genetics. Return to the top of the page. - R - Recessive Describes a trait that is masked by the dominant trait and is only expressed in the homozygous condition. Renewable Resource Material used or consumed by humans that can be replenished sufficiently to prevent complete consumption of that material. Resources are renewed through growth or other ongoing processes. Reproduction The process by which an individual organism gives rise to offspring, passing on its genetic information to the next generation. Repressor Protein that binds to DNA near promoter sites, reducing the amount of mRNA that is generated from that promoter, and consequently the amount of protein that is translated from the mRNA. The ability of the repressor to bind to DNA is often controlled by small molecules, i.e. the lac repressor is released from DNA in the presence of lactose. Resource Depletion Material used or consumed by humans that is nearing or at depletion and may not be replenishable. Currently, the average citizen of a developed nation consumes an average of 16 tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year. Shortages may result if humans use resources at an unsustainable rate. Wild plants and animals may be harvested to the point of extinction. Degradation of soil can lead to crop failures. Minerals and fossil fuels may be depleted to the point where their extraction becomes increasingly expensive and disruptive. Restriction Endonuclease An enzyme that recognizes and cleaves a specific DNA sequence. Example: EcoR1 binds to the sequence GAATTC and cleaves between the G and the A. Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) The nucleic acid composed of nucleotides in a single strand whose primary function is protein synthesis. Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) The type of RNA that is component of a ribosome, and which assists with the process of translating the instructions for making proteins that are present in messenger RNA (mRNA). Ribosome A cellular structure consisting of RNA and protein organized into two subunits and functioning as the site of protein synthesis in the cytoplasm. The ribosomal subunits are constructed in the nucleolus. In prokaryotes ribosomes are found in the cytoplasm; however, in eukaryotes they are mainy associated with part of the endoplasmic reticulum, named rough endoplasmic reticulum -- due to its dotted appearance. Ribosome Binding Site Sequence on mRNA that is responsible for binding of the mRNA to prokaryotic ribosomes. RNA Polymerase Enzyme involved in transcription, build an RNA strand using DNA as a template. Return to the top of the page. - S - Saturated Fats One type of the long fatty acid molecules comprising fats and olis (i.e., triglycerides). Saturated fatty acids have no carbon-carbon double bonds. All of the carbon-carbon bonds are single bonds and each carbon is bonded to two or three hydrogen atoms; each carbon is “saturated” with hydrogen. All the bonds are single therefore the entire fatty acid can form a linear shape. Saturated fats tend to have a higher melting point and are likely to be solid at room temparature; e.g., butter and lard. Scientific Experiment A structured and active process used to test a hypothesis. In an experiment, the scientist has some form of control over the variables at work in the system under study. Typically some variable is deliberately changed by the experimenter and other variables are monitored to see if they change as a result. Scientific Inquiry The application of scientific observation, experimentation and the scientific method to study, interpret and predict natural phenomena in the world around us. Scientific Observation A process used to explore and describe patterns in nature. In a strictly observational study, the scientist does not have control over the conditions or variables at work in the system under study. The scientist reports what has happened without taking steps to intervene in the system. Segregation The two alleles for each trait separate when gametes form. Selection Process in which characteristics of a population change predictably over many generations. Selection takes forms such as natural selection (favors traits that aid in survival to reproductive age), sexual selection (favors traits that boost mating success), and artificial selection (favors traits that are chosen by human breeders). Selective Permeability A property of the cell membrane wherein only certain molecules or ions can cross the membrane by diffusion. This property allows the membrane to regulate the passage of substances across them. In this way the cell can maintain homeostasis by controlling what enters and exits the cell. Sex-Linked Describes a trait associated to alleles located on sex chromosomes, most commonly it is X-linked. Sexual Reproduction A more complicated form of reproduction where two haploid, gametes (sperm and egg) fuse to create a diploid zygote. This type of reproduction produces offspring that are genetically different from their parents. Sexual Selection Natural selection arising through preference by one sex for certain characteristics in individuals of the other sex. Simple Diffusion The spontaneous movement of particles of any kind down a concentration gradient; that is, movement of particles from where they are more concentrated to where they are less concentrated. Sister Chromatid One of two identical copies of a chromosome duplicated during the S phase of the cell cycle. A centromere connects two sister chromatids together. When joined together sister chromatids compose one chromosome, and chromatids are separated from each other during mitosis or meiosis. Solute Component of a solution that is present in the smallest quantity and which dissolves in a solvent. Solutions Homogeneous mixtures of solvent and solute. Solvent Component of a solution that is present in the greatest quantity and in which something else is dissolved. Somatic Cell Any nonreproductive cell found in multicellular organisms. That is, any cell except a germ cell or gametes (sperm and egg cells) found in a muticellular organism. Examples are lung and heart cells, nerve cells, and blood cells. Speciation Speciation is the formation of new biological lineage as one species splits into two or more species. Species A group of organisms whose members can and will breed with each other to produce fertile offspring. Species Richness The number of different species of organisms present in a given area. This is a statistic used to describe an ecological community. Spontaneous Generation A disproven principle stating that life could originate from inanimate matter on an ongoing basis. Starch A branching polysaccharides consisting of linked glucose molecules. Starch is made by producers, not animals. Starch can be broken down into individual glucose molecules that can be used to build ATP. Start Codon Codon in the mRNA that represents the first amino acid to be incorporated. It is almost always AUG. Sterols Also known as steroid alcohols, these are an important subgroup of steroids widely distributed in animal and plant lipids. The most familiar type of animal sterol is cholesterol which builds steroid hormones, are sources for vitamins D and K, and helps maintain cell membrane consistency. Sticky End A single stranded end on DNA. Produced by the activity of most restriction endonucleases. The bases on one single stranded segment can "stick" to another single stranded end by forming complementary hydrogen bonds between the bases on each strand. Stop Codon Codon in the mRNA that signals the termination of the polypeptide chain. Three stop codons are UAG, UAA, or UGA. Substrate A molecule that binds to the active site of an enzyme. Upon bonding to the enzyme, the substrate molecule is converted into a new molecule. That is, the enzyme converts the substrate(s) into a different chemical arrangement. Subunit Structural unit of a larger molecule or a protein in a multi-protein complex. This term is similar, but not identical to the term monomer. Surface Tension The capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. Sustainable Technology Solutions that meet human economic and social needs while preserving the productivity or biodiversity of ecosystems over a long period of time. Symbiosis A type of direct community interaction between pairs of species that are intimately and physically connected, with a smaller species (symbiont) living in or on the body of a larger species (host). These direct interactions are described using the term symbiosis, which translates to “together living.” Sympatric Speciation The formation of a new species (from within a population) in the same geographic area without a known geographical barrier that divides them today or in the recent geologic past. Return to the top of the page. - T - Telophase This is the final stage of mitosis. In telophase, new nuclear envelopes form around the separated chromosomes at each pole of the cell, the chromosomes unfold back into chromatin, nucleoli reappear, and the cell continues to elongate. Terminator A sequence of DNA at the end of the mRNA that signals the termination of transcription by RNA polymerase. Tissue A groups of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function within an organism. In the lung, for instance, the lining of airways comprises one type of tissue: a layer of similar cells that forms a sealed surface. Trait Form of a characteristic represented. Transfer RNA (tRNA) The type of RNA, directly involved in protein synthesis, that transports amino acids to ribosomes to be incorporated into an emerging protein. Transformation Change in genotype and phenotype resulting from assimilation of outside DNA. Translation The process by which the information stored in messenger RNA is used to synthesize proteins. The information in the RNA (a nucleic acid) is converted to a new chemical form, amino acids. Transport Protein A membrane protein that helps move substances across a cell membrane. Transcription Reading the DNA and encoding an mRNA molecule with information to be taken to protein-synthesizing regions of the cell. It is the process through which a complementary copy of protein-coding mRNA is synthesized, using one strand of DNA as a template. The new RNA strand is identical to the complement of the single strand of DNA from which it was transcribed except that the base thymine (T) in the DNA strand is replaced by the base uracil (U) in the RNA strand. Triglycerides A type of lipid (also known as fats and oils) used to store energy long term. Fats are synthesized from two different classes of molecules: fatty acids and alcohol. Fats and oils have three long carbon chains attached to glycerol (a short carbon chain). There are many different triglyceriders; some are highly saturated and some are unsaturated. Trophic Level Groupings of species in a community based on their feeding relationships. These food based groupings are called trophic levels. Trophic level 1 is composed of producers that form the base of all ecosystems. Organisms in level 1 are eaten by organisms in level 2; organisms in level 2 are eaten by organisms in level 3; organisms in level 3 are by organisms in level 4, and so on. True-Breeding Describes organisms that when bred only have offspring with the same phenotype as the parents; the organism is homozygous at the genotypes of interest. Return to the top of the page. - U - Unsaturated Fats One type of the long fatty acid molecules comprising fats and olis (i.e., triglycerides). Unsaturated fatty acids have one, two, or even three double bonds along the carbon “backbone.” In each double bond, the carbons are bonded to only one hydrogen atom. These fatty acids have less hydrogen; and thus, are “unsaturated” with hydrogen. Unsaturated fats tend to have a lower melting point and will remain fluid at room temperature. They are called oils and are commonly produced by plants; for example olive oil, corn oil, and canola oil. Return to the top of the page. - V - Valence Electrons The electrons in the outermost shell of the atom, which are available for chemical bonding. This diagram of a carbon atom illustrates that carbon has four (4) valence electrons. Variable A characteristic of a subject that can vary from one subject to the next or over time. A variable may be a category to which a subject can be assigned (for example: male or female) or it may be measured precisely (for example: body mass). Vesicle A membranous sac in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells used to isolate and transport materials in a cell. Virus An acellular infectious particle, made of a nucleic acid surrounded by a protein coat and sometimes with an additional envelope. Viruses need to infect a host in order to replicate. Return to the top of the page. - Z - Zygote The newly formed diploid cell that is produced when two haploid gametes unite. In animals this occurs when a sperm fertilizes an egg. Return to the top of the page. Abiotic An adjective that describes nonliving materials in the environment, such as sunlight, rain, gases in the air, rocks, and chemicals in the soil. Acids Substances that when dissolved in water form an excess of hydronium ions (H3O+). Acids are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) donors. Acids taste sour. Many foods and beverages are acidic, including citrus fruit and tomato juice. Activation Energy The amount of energy required by a chemical reaction in order for the reaction to occur. All chemical reactions require some amount of activation energy. Active Site The part of an enzyme to which a substrate binds. Active Transport The movement of a substance across a biological membrane against its concentration gradient, aided by specific transport proteins and requiring input of energy (often as ATP). Adenosine Diphosphate (ADP) Adenosine diphosphate, or ADP, consists of a single adenosine molecule (composed of an adenine base bound to a ribose sugar) linked to two phosphate ions. Building ATP from ADP is an anabolic reaction that requires catabolic pathways such as cellular respiration. Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP) Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a nucleotide; that is, an organic molecule that acts as the direct energy source for almost all cellular activities. It consists of a single adenosine molecule (composed of the base adenine bound to a ribose sugar), linked to three phosphate ions. It is however a relatively unstable molecule; consequently, it is never used for the long-term storage of energy in the cell. ATP is specialized for direct and rapid transfers of energy. ATP consists of a single adenosine molecule (green rectangle) linked to three phosphate ions (orange circles). Adhesion The attraction of water molecules to molecules other than water. Capillary action (in which water will spontaneously climb up the walls of a tube without pumping) is a result of the adhesion of water molecules with the surface of a tube containing the water. Aldose A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde Allele An alternative form of a gene. An example would be genes that encode eye color - some encode blue eyes (one allele), while others encode brown, green or hazel eye colors (other alleles). Allopatric Speciation The formation of a new species through the geographical isolation of a portion of a population from the population as a whole. Amino Acids A small organic molecule with the structure of an amino group, a carboxylic acid group, and an “R” group, which are all bonded to a single central carbon atom. The difference between the “R” group is what distinguishes one amino acid from another. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. Amino Acids, Aromatic An amino acid with a side chain that contains a ring structure with conjugated double bonds. Conjugated double bonds refer to the alternating arrangement of bonds in a molecule: double-single-double bond. The benzene ring is the best known example of an aromatic group. Two amino acids, phenylalanine and tyrosine, contain the benzene ring. Aromatic rings can include atoms other than carbon. Amino Acids with Acidic Side Chains Amino acids with acidic side chains contain a carboxyl group on the side chain. At physiological pH, acidic groups lose protons (acting as an acid) and become negatively charged. Amino Acids with Basic Side Chains Amino acids with basic side chains contain basic nitrogen-containing groups. At physiological pH, basic groups gain a proton (acting as a base) and become positively charged. Anabolic Anabolic reactions use energy to build more complex molecules from relatively simple raw materials. Anaphase A stage within the mitosis phase of cell division (also known as cell reproduction). Anaphase starts when sister chromatids separate from each other and ends when each set of separated, sister chromatids arrives at the opposite poles of the cell. Aneuploidy A condition where an abnormal number of chromosomes and genetic material migrates and attaches where it does not belong. Annealing Binding of one nucleic acid chain to another. Anthropogenic Global Climate Change It is the full range of climatic disruptions that have occurred as a probable result of human alteration of the atmosphere. In other words, it is recent climate warming—and weirdness—that is probably caused by human activities and technology use. Antibiotic Resistance A condition due to the presence of a plasmid in a cell that contains a gene that encodes a protein that inactivates an antibiotic. Cells containing this plasmid will be resistant, and therefore able to grow, in the presence of the antibiotic. Aqueous Solutions Solutions in which water is the solvent. Artificial Selection Deliberate mating between two individuals who were selected based on desired traits. Asexual Reproduction A type of reproduction where genetically identical offspring are created from a single parent. This type of reproduction does not utilize meiosis or gametes. Bacteria and fungi are examples of organisms that reproduce in this manner. Atom The basic unit of matter that cannot be further broken down without losing its unique properties. One atom consists of a dense nucleus surrounded by a cloud of electrons. The diagram below represents an atom of carbon. Atomic Mass Also known as the atomic weight, the approximate weight of an atom. The atomic mass, more specifically, is the mass of the nucleus which is the sum of the protons and neutrons in the nucleus. Atomic Number Number of protons in each atom, which is equal to the number of electrons in each atom--unless the atom is ionized. As seen in this diagram of an atom, lithium has three protons in its nucleus. Therefore the atomic number of lithium is 3. Autosomal Describes a trait associated with alleles located on autosomes (non sex chromosomes). Bases Substances that when dissolved in water reduce the concentration of hydronium (H3O+) ions. Bases are hydrogen ion/proton (H+) acceptors. Bases taste bitter and feel slippery. Soaps are common basic substances. Biodegradable Material Materials capable of natural decomposition and which break down into nutrients or elements that can be recycled. Biodegradable materials are more sustainable over time because they can be recycled in an ecosystem or biogeochemical cycle. Nonbiodegradable materials tend to accumulate over time and may cause negative environmental impacts. Biodiversity Biodiversity is simply the diversity of life in an area. Biogeochemical Cycles The processes that transfer chemical elements between biotic and abiotic components in an ecosystem. Biological Lineage A lineage is a group of populations that evolves independently of other groups. Biological Macromolecules Relatively large ("macro") molecules made by living organisms from smaller molecular building blocks. There are four classes of biological macromolecules: protiens, lipids, nucleic acids and polysaccharides/complex sugars. For example, starch is a biological macromolecule made by plants from smaller subunits, glucose; all proteins are made of amino acids, and nucleic acids are made from nucleotides. Biology The scientific study of life. Biology is a vast subject divided into many branches or subdivisions representing areas of specialization. Branches of biology include: anatomy, biochemistry, ecology, evolution, genetics, immunology, physiology, and many more. Biogenesis The principle that living things come only from other living things. Biomass The total amount (mass) of living organic materials within an ecosystem or the mass of all members of some specified group of organisms (e.g. producer biomass, insect biomass, etc.) Biosphere All areas on, within, and around the planet Earth that are capable of supporting life. Biotic An adjective that describes living organisms or their remains. Common characteristics of biotic (living) things are that they use energy and raw materials to grow, sense and respond to changing environments; they reproduce; and they consist of one or more cells. Biotic Cycling Cycling of chemicals among living organisms Buffers Solutions which resist changes in pH by acting as either an acid or a base. Blood is an example of a buffered solution. This means that if a small amount of acid or base is introduced to the bloodstream, components in your blood will neutralize the acid or base and the pH of your blood will change only very slightly. Carbohydrates An organic molecule that contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a certain proportion. The primary functions of carbohydrates are to: store energy, provide structure, and cell signaling and recognition. Common carbohydrates are sugars and starches. Carrying Capacity A stable population size. The maximum population size of a species that an environment can sustain over a long period of time, given the food, habitat, water and other necessities available in the environment. Catabolic Catabolic reactions break down larger, more complex molecules into smaller molecules and release energy in the process. Catalyst A substance that speeds up a chemical reaction, but is not itself chemically-altered in the process. A catalyst increases the rate of a reaction, by decreasing the activation energy required for the reaction to take place. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Cell The smallest fundamental unit of structure and function in life. Cells are fluid-filled spaces bound by a membrane. When first formed, all cells include DNA and other macromolecules and are organized to grow, reproduce, and respond to changes in the external environment. Cell Cycle A series of phases in the life of the cell through which it grows and divides. Diagram depicting the cell cycle phases G1, Synthesis (S), and G2, collectively referred to as the Interphase (I). G0 corresponds to cells that do not divide further, such as some nerve cells. M (red) corresponds to mitosis, with the four phases of mitosis designated below in colors yellow, gold, tan, and orange. Cell Theory The theory that new cells are formed from other existing cells, and that the cell is a fundamental unit of structure, function, and organization in all living organisms. Cell Wall Protective and reinforcing structure found in certain cells, situated outside the plasma membrane. Bacterial cell walls are mainly built of peptidoglycan, although they may also contain lipidic molecules. Among eukaryotes, plants and fungi possess cell walls, made of cellulose and chitin, respectively. Cellular Respiration A metabolic pathway that uses stored chemical energy from foods (such as glucose) to build ATP. The overall equation for cellular respiration is: sugar + O2 → CO2 + H20 + energy Cellular Respiration Diagram An illustration of cellular respiration including glycolysis, Krebs cycle (also know as, citric acid cycle), and the electron transport chain. By RegisFrey (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Centrioles The place where the microtubules originate from during mitosis. Centrioles are contained within the centrosomes. Characteristics Heritable features, such as color and shape. Chemical Bonds Attractions between atoms that hold atoms and molecules together. There are three major types of chemical bonds that are important in biology: i) covalent, ii) ionic, and iii) hydrogen bonds. Covalent bonds occur when two atoms share electrons. Ionic bonds occur when two oppositely charged ions stick together. Chemical Energy The energy stored in chemical bonds. Chemical energy can be released when certain bonds are broken. Chemical energy is released when wood is burned: the bonds in the wood are broken, releasing light and heat energy. Chemical energy stored in ATP is used to run many cellular processes. Chemical energy stored in foods is used to build ATP. Shown here is the thermal motion of a segment of protein alpha helix. Molecules have various internal vibrational and rotational degrees of freedom. This is because molecules are complex objects; they are a population of atoms that can move about within a molecule in different ways. Heat energy is stored in molecules’ internal motions which gives them an internal temperature. Even though these motions are called “internal,” the external portions of molecules still move—rather like the jiggling of a water balloon. By GregL (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Chemical Reaction A chemical change in which new molecules are formed from existing molecules. A chemical reaction (i.e., a transformation) may break up a large molecule resulting into two or more smaller molecules; or, the reaction may combine molecules forming a new substance. Examples of chemical reactions you may recognize are: rust forming through the reaction of oxygen in the air with iron; or, silver tarnish resulting from the reaction of silver with moisture in the air. Chemical Structures Representations of a molecule showing arrangement of atoms and chemical bonds. Simple structures represent atoms by one leter symbols and covalent bonds by lines. Three-dimensional structures represent arrangment of atoms and bonds in three-dimensional space. For example, water can be represented by any of the following structures: H-O-H and 3D representations. Chemistry The study of matter and its structure, properties, and reactions. Understanding the basic principles of chemistry is vitally important in studying biology, as many biological interactions involve chemistry. Chlorophyll A plant pigment used to absorb light energy for photosynthesis. Chlorophyll gives plants their green color because it absorbs red and blue light particularly well, while reflecting green. Chloroplast An organelle found in plants and photosynthetic protists (single-Celled eukaryotic organisms) which contain pigments such as chlorophyl. Its primary function is to capture solar energy and convert it into chemical energy through the process of photosynthesis. Chloroplast absorbs sunlight energy and uses the energy to power the synthesis of organic food molecules (sugars). A chloroplast contains its own DNA as a single circular chromosome. Cholesterol A molecule in the steroid family of lipids that includes four fused carbon rings. Cholesterol has many function: used to build steroid hormones; precursor to vitamins D and K; some may be converted to bile salts facilitating the absorption of fats by the digestive system; and, used by animals to maintain the proper consistency of cell membranes. Chromatin A combination of DNA and proteins that constitutes chromosomes. The term chromatin is used to refer to the extended form taken by the chromosomes when a eukaryotic cell is not dividing. When the cells divide, chromatin condenses and becomes visible as chromosomes. Chromosome Tightly coiled form of the DNA-protein complex. A thread-like structure of nucleic acids carrying genetic information in the form of genes. Chromosomes are found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell and in the nucleoid region of a prokaryotic cell. Cilum (plural: cilia) A short hair-like appendage on the cell surface. It functions to move the cell from one place to another; or, to move fluids and particles across the cell surface. It can be found on certain eukaryotic cells, such as the cells of the respiratory system. Clade A clade is composed of a common ancestor and all species that descend from this common ancestor. A clade forms a distinct branch on the tree of life. Climate Change Adaptation Actions humans take to prepare for future changes in climate and minimize harm to humans and ecosystems. It is the effort to make humans and ecosystems less vulnerable to the effects of ongoing and future climate change. Climate Change Mitigation The effort to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or increase the rate at which they are removed from the air, thereby slowing the pace and reducing the severity of climate change. Clones The genetically identical offspring produced from asexual reproduction. Codominant A gene where two different alleles are both expressed in the heterozygous condition. Codon A sequence of three nucleotides in an mRNA molecule that specifies which amino acid should be added to a growing polypeptide chain. Codon Optimization Due to degeneracy in the genetic code, more than one codon can code for the same amino acid. Different organisms prefer one codon over another. The process of codon optimization is the use of prefered codons when designing a gene to be expressed in a certain organism. Cohesion Describes a property of matter in which particles tend to stick together. Liquid water is cohesive and forms spherical droplets because of its hydrogen bonds which attract the individual water molecules to each other. Combustion A chemical reaction between a chemical and oxygen that releases heat and light quickly. Unlike cellular respiration, combustion is not a viable option for organisms to extract chemical energy. Cars run using an internal combustion engine. Photo by Andy Dingley (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Community All of the populations interacting with each other within a specified area. Community Interaction How populations of different species interact with and effect each other within a defined area constituting an ecological community. Competition A type of interspecific interaction where both species are harmed. Concentration Gradient An increase or decrease in the density of a chemical substance within a given region. Cells often maintain concentration gradients of hydrogen ions across their membranes. When a gradient exists, the ions or other chemical substances involved tend to move from where they are more concentrated to where they are less concentrated. Condensation A chemical reaction where two chemicals are bound together. The formation of the bond between these two chemicals often releases water. Basic amino acid condensation. By Rik van der Lingen(Wikipedia) Public Domain Consumer An organism that must eat or absorb complex food molecules derived from the bodies of other organisms. Consumers get their energy and nutrients from such food molecules. Humans and other animals are consumers, as are fungi and most bacteria. Control Group A group of subjects in an experiment that does not receive the treatment to be evaluated, but is otherwise similar to the experimental group. The control group provides a strong basis for comparison, demonstrating what happens in the absence of the factor being tested. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, experimenters would predict that the control group subjects—those who did not receive the drug—would not be cured over the course of the study. Control Variable Any variable in an experiment that is kept the same between the control and experimental groups. For example, in a study to test a drug, the control and experimental groups would each contain subjects (people) of similar ages and similar numbers of men and women. Additionally, scientists may also put all of the study participants on the same diet and exercise plan. Covalent Bonds Chemical bonds that form molecules and are a result of sharing of electrons; electrons can be shared equally (non-polar covalent) or unequally (polar covalent). In the diagram below that illustrates the formation of a methane molecule, the carbon atom shares each of its four (4) valence electrons with one hydrogen atom, which in turn shares its one valence electron with the carbon atom. Crossing-over Crossing over is a process in which genes swap positions between chromatids of homologous chromosomes during Prophase I of meiosis. The result of crossing over is a new combination of genes on each chromosome and leads to increased genetic diversity. Cytokinesis The division of the cytoplasm of a cell at the end of mitosis to form two separate daughter cells. In animals cells, this occurs through the pinching of the membrane at the center of the parental cell while in plants, this occurs through the formation of a cell plate as new cell wall forms to separate the daughter cells. Cytoplasm The substance that fills the inside contents of a cell between the plasma membrane and the nucleus. Contains a semifluid medium, composed mainly of water, and organelles (organelles are present only if it is a eukaryotic cell). Denatured State The state in which unfolded protein chains become entangled with one another. Extreme temperature and pH are two causes of protein denaturation. Dependent Variable An effect; a variable that is thought to change as a result or consequence of some other variable. In an experiment, a dependent variable is used to describe the result, or outcome. For example, in a study to test a drug, the dependent variable might be the proportion of subjects that are cured at the end of the study. Development Change in structure and function that occurs in an orderly way as an organism passes through its life cycle. Dietary Fiber Indigestible carbohydrates, which cannot be degraded by human digestive enzymes but that still play important roles in maintaining health. Cellulose, which is a major component of cell walls, is one of the largest contributors to dietary fiber. Diffusion The spontaneous movement of particles of any kind down a concentration gradient; that is, movement of particles from where they are more concentrated to where they are less concentrated. Dihybrid Cross Cross between two organisms that are each heterozygous for two distinct genes. Diploid Referring to cells that contain two sets of chromosomes (i.e. pairs of homologous chromosomes). One set of chromosomes is inherited from the mother and the other set is inherited from the father. Diploid cells are 2n. Somatic and germ cells are diploid. Disaccharide A carbohydrate made of two monosaccharides linked together by a covalent bond. Two common disaccharides are sucrose and lactose. glucose + fructose = Sucrose (table sugar) glucose + galactose = Lactose (milk sugar) DNA: Deoxyribonucleic Acid The nucleic acid that contains genetic instructions for making RNA and, ultimately, proteins in all living organisms. DNA is composed of two strands of nucleotides, which are intertwined in a double helix. DNA Ligase An enzyme that will bind to DNA fragments held together by sticky ends and reform the phosphodiester bond between the two DNA fragments. DNA Polymerase Enzyme involved in DNA replication, recognizes the primer and adds nucleotides to the 3’ end of the primer. DNA Replication Synthesis of a new DNA double helix. It is the process by which a cell, when dividing, makes a copy of its DNA by an enzyme-catalyzed reaction. Each strand in the existing double helix is used as a template strand to build a new DNA strand. The result of DNA replication is that the daughter cells produced in cell division have the same DNA as the original cell. Dominant Describes a trait that is expressed (manifested as a phenotype) even when only one copy of the allele encoding the trait is present in the genotype. Ecological Community The collection of all interacting species populations within some defined area. Ecosystem All the living (biotic) things in a particular area together with the abiotic (nonliving) materials and conditions in that area; i.e., a biological community and its physical environment. Electron Negatively charged subatomic particle that occupies shells surrounding the nucleus and has a mass that is so small it is considered to be zero. Electronegativity The tendancy of an atom to hold shared electrons more close to its nucleus. Atoms like oxygen have a high electronegativity. This means when oxygen forms a covalent bond with an atom of lower electronegativity, the shared electrons will stay closer to the oxygen atom than to the other atom. Strongly electronegative atoms bonded to weakly electronegative hydrogen atoms, in a molecule, result in hydrogen bonding. The most important strongly electronegative elements in biological systems are oxygen and nitrogen. Elements Matter consisting entirely of atoms with the same number of protons. There are 92 elements found in nature. Hydrogen, with one proton, is the most common element in the universe. Emergent Properties Characteristics of a system that do not appear in any one of its component parts alone, but that appear when all parts are combined. Enantiomers An important aspect of carbon bonding is the fact that carbon can covalently bond to four groups and that the bonding geometry of the carbon atom is tetrahedral. Therefore, if the four groups attached to the carbon are different, then two unique arrangements of the groups around the carbon atom are possible and this carbon is said to be an asymmetric center or a chiral center. The two arrangements of groups about the carbon are mirror images of each other and these two structures are referred to as enantiomers. It is impossible to superimpose these two mirror images, consequently they are distinct molecules. Endocytosis The movement of materials into the cytoplasm of a cell via vesicles or vacuoles. Endomembrane System A term for a set of membranous structures found in eukaryotic cells that are related to the synthesis, packaging, and distribution of cellular molecules. It encompasses the endoplasmic reticulum (rough and smooth), the Golgi apparatus, and vesicles. Endotherms Organisms that maintain internal body temperature using their own metabolism; for example animals that live in cold polar regions, like penguins, whales, and seals. These are all examples of animals with thick insulating “blubber” beneath the skin. Energy The capacity to do work. Work is any change that won’t happen on its own. Work can involve movement, building larger molecules, increasing the concentration of chemicals, increasing the temperature of an object, making a sound, or even glowing (bioluminescence). All living things need energy to run the processes required for life. Energy Pyramid A diagram that shows the energy available at each trophic level in an ecosystem. The pattern of energy flow in an ecosystem from producers (bottom of the pyramid) to the highest trophic level consumer (levels 2 and up) -- where only about 10% of the available energy in one trophic level is incorporated and stored as calories in the bodies of the next level up. The result of this is a pyramid in which energy availability decreases as the trophic levels increase. Remember that any energy not transferred to the next higher trophic level is released as undigested materials in feces or is dissipated as heat. Enzyme A protein that acts as a catalyst for chemical reactions in biological organisms. Enzymes increase the speed of chemical reactions. They are proteins that bind to a chemical (called a substrate) and chemically modify the substrate into an end product. The substrate binds to the active site of the enzyme. Enzymes speed up the rate of chemical reactions that support life. Epigenetics Epigenetics is the study of heritable changes in gene expression or cellular phenotype that are not the result of changes in the underlying DNA sequence (i.e., mutations) but rather through different mechanisms (e.g., DNA methylation or histone remodeling). Epistasis A single trait involving multiple genes where the effect of one gene can mask the effect of a different gene. Eukaryotic Cells A type of cell that has a membrane-enclosed nucleus and other membrane-enclosed structures (called organelles) such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, cytoskeleton, and the Golgi apparatus. All organisms except bacteria and archaea are composed of eukaryotic cells (also referred to as eukaryotes); that is, all species of animal, plants and fungi are composed of eukaryotic cells. Evolution A scientific theory explaining how and why genetic changes occur in populations or higher-level groups over generations of time. Exocytosis The movement of materials out of the cytoplasm of a cell via membranous vesicles or vacuoles. Experimental Group A group of subjects in an experiment that receives the treatment to be evaluated. If the hypothesis is correct, the dependent variable will change in a predictable way within the experimental group. For example, in a study to test the effectiveness of a drug, a high proportion of those in the experimental group would be cured or helped by the treatment, if the hypothesis is correct. Expression Plasmid A circular double stranded DNA molecule that contains all of the necessary DNA sequences to allow for maintenance of the plasmid as well as the production of mRNA from genes inserted into the plasmid. F1 Generation First filial offspring of the parents; the first generation of offspring; the first child of a parent. F2 Generation Second filial generation; offspring of the F1 generation; grandchild of a parent. Facilitated Diffusion The passage diffusion of a substance across a biological membrane down its concentration gradient, aided by specific transport proteins. Fatty Acids One of the two types of molecules that combine to form triglycerides (fats and oils). Fatty acids are unbranched hydrocarbons that terminate with a single carboxyl functional group. The fatty acids are generally 16-22 carbons long and can be both saturated and unsaturated. Fermentation Fermentation breaks down organic molecules and stores energy as ATP. Fermentation reactions do not require oxygen, and they do not break down all glucose fully to carbon dioxide. Instead, they end with organic molecules that still contain considerable chemical potential energy. Such pathways produce only a tiny amount of ATP compared to aerobic cellular respiration. Fermentation can produce a variety of end products including lactic acid, ethanol, and others. Flagellum (plural flagella) - A long whip-like projection used in moving the cell from one place to another. It can be found in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. A cell may have one or more flagella. Food Chain A group of organisms that are joined in a linear series of feeding relationships starting with the producer and moving up the trophic levels. An example would be grass to grasshopper to rat to owl: grass → grasshopper → rat → owl Food Web A diagram showing all feeding relationships in a community; emphasizes the complexity of real communities which generally have many overlapping and interconnected food chains. Depiction of the food web associated with freshwater wetlands. By Mark Sharp (EPA) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons Foundation Species A species that are physically dominant (largest and/or most abundant) in communities. Functional Groups Smaller groups of atoms within a larger molecule that have a particular characteristic or function. Functional groups give a molecule its characteristics and participate in predictable chemical reactions. Gamete A haploid, sex cell (egg or sperm) produced from germ cells that have undergone meiosis. When two gametes join in fertilization the resulting zygote is a complete diploid cell. Gene A segment of DNA that carries specific information, ultimately coding for a protein, which determines certain traits in an organism. The gene is the basic unit of inheritance. It is a segment of DNA with instructions for protein synthesis. Genes are located on DNA stands, and each gene is composed of a specific nucleotide sequence that codes for the amino acid sequence of a protein. Gene Expression Transcription of information encoded in a gene into RNA and eventually a polypeptide chain. It is the process by which information coded in a gene is accessed and used to produce RNA and proteins. Gene Flow The result of fertile members of a species moving into or out of a population. Gene Pool All of the genes and alleles present in a population at some point in time. Genetic Drift The change in a gene pool as a result of random chance. Genome All the genetic information in an organism. The complete DNA sequence of one set of chromosomes from an organism. Genotype Alleles (i.e., one version of a gene) present in an organism. Germ Cell A cell that in the body of a sexually reproducing organism that produces gametes (eggs or sperm) through meiosis. Germ cells are immature reproductive cells. In humans, germ cells are found in the testes of men and ovaries of women. Glycogen A polysaccharide that is stored in the liver and is composed of glucose molecules linked together. Excess glycogen is converted to fat. When food intake is insufficient, glycogen can be broken down into glucose for energy. Golgi Apparatus An organelle in eukaryotic cells consisting of stacks of membranous sacs that modify, store, and ship products of the endoplasmic reticulum. Greenhouse Effect A phenomenon in which greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere support heat retention and serve to maintain warm and relatively stable surface temperatures. Certain gases warm the climate by absorbing and re-emitting heat radiation, keeping temperatures warmer and more stable near the planet’s surface. Humans have strengthened this effect by adding extra greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Some results have included increased temperatures, increased sea level, increasingly variable weather, melting ice and permafrost, increasing droughts, shifts in species distributions, and shifts in the timing of seasonal events. Greenhouse Gas Greenhouse gases absorb and reemit heat waves (infrared radiation). Three important greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4). Much of the heat (infrared) radiation that leaves Earth’s surface is absorbed by greenhouse gases and reemitted back toward Earth. As a result, these gases retain heat in the atmosphere. Instead of escaping immediately to space, heat is delayed near the Earth’s surface and continues to warm our atmosphere. Growth Increase in size of an organism. Biological growth, unlike the growth of a glacier or a mountain, is not merely an increase in size; it also involves the reorganization of materials into the unique structures of the organism. Habitat Loss Human activities destroy or change a habitat so that it no longer supports the growth and reproduction of a species. This is widely acknowledged as the most important direct threat to biodiversity worldwide. Habitats that have been profoundly changed by human activities include forests (clearing), grasslands (plowing and overgrazing), rivers (damming), and wetlands (draining). Haploid Cells that contain only one set of chromosomes. Haploid cells are referred to as "1n". Gametes (sperm and eggs) are haploid. In human haploid gametes contain 23 chromosomes. Heterozygous Having two different alleles for a trait present. Homeostasis The tendency of organisms and cells to maintain stable internal conditions. The term comes from the Greek words homeo (same, alike) and stasis (standing). Homologous Refers to two chromosomes that are a matched pair in a diploid cell. A matched pair of chromosomes are the same length and contain genes for the same characteristics at the same position on them. For each homologous pair, one chromosome is inherited from the mother and the other is inherited from the father. Homologous Features Shared features/traits that were inherited from the same source and reflect common ancestry. Remember these features/traits are based in genes (not acquired through learning or the environment). Homologue Refers to one of the other of a homologous pair of chromosomes. Each is considered the homologue of the other. Homozygous Both alleles present are identical. Hydrogen Bonds Hydrogen bond (H-bond) is an interaction between a partially positive hydrogen atom and a partially negative atom with unshared (lone) pair of electrons. In order for hydrogen to have sufficient partial positive charge, hydrogen must be covalently attached to a very electronegative atom (O, N, P). Partially negative atom with lone pair of electrons must also be a highly electronegative atom like oxygen or nitrogen. Hydrogen Ion Hydrogen ions (denoted H+) are hydrogen atoms that have had their electrons removed. What remains is only a single proton. Hydrolysis A chemical reaction where a molecule is split into two molecules. The breaking of this bond requires breaking a water molecule. Diagram showing the enzymatic hydrolysis of lactose to D-galactose and D-glucose by the action of the enzyme lactase. By Edgar181, Wikipedia. Public Domain Hydrophilic Substances that dissolve in or are attracted to water. Hydrophilic (from Greek meaning "water-loving") refers to molecules that are water soluble. Hydrophilic molecules contain polar functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds with water. Ionic and polar substances are hydrophilic. Hydrophobic Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Hypertonic In comparing two solutions, hypertonic refers to the one with the greater concentration of solutes. Hypothesis A proposed explanation of an observation; often referred to as an “educated guess.” In the process of the scientific method, a hypothesis is tested through experimentation and/or observation. Hypotonic In comparing two solutions, hypotonic refers to the one with the lower concentration of solutes. Incomplete Dominant A gene where the dominant allele is not expressed as strongly in the heterozygote as in the homozygous dominant condition. Independent Variable A cause or factor; a variable that is thought to cause another variable to change. In an experiment, an independent variable is deliberately changed in one group at the beginning of the study. For example, in a study to test a drug, one group might be given the drug and another group would not; the independent variable in this example would be whether patients were given the drug. Indirect Interaction A type of community interaction where the effect of one species on another is exerted through one or more additional species acting as intermediaries. This is sometimes referred to as the "ripple effect". Inhibitor To “inhibit” means to restrain or hinder. Inhibitors reduce the activity of enzymes or other proteins. Inorganic Any substance lacking molecules that contain a carbon atom bonded to a hydrogen atom. Examples of common inorganic substances are: water, oxygen gas, carbon dioxide and ionic salts. Integral Proteins A protein that completely spans the plasma membrane. The protein has regions that are hydrophilic and hydrophobic. Interphase The stage of the cell cycle when division (mitosis) does not occur. During interphase, the cell grows, acquires nutrients, and replicates both its chromosomes as well as its organelles. Interphase consists of the G1 (chromosomes condense), S (DNA duplicates), and G2 (DNA integritiy checked and repaired) phases of the cell cycle. Cells spend the majority of their time in interphase. Diagram depicting the cell cycle phases G1, S, and G2, collectively referred to as the Interphase (I). Interspecific Interaction An effect of one population on another in a community; any interaction between members of different species. This is a type of community interaction and has three subtypes: mutualism, predation, and competition. Introduced Species Non-native species that are introduced in new habitats and compete--often out-compete--species native to the habitat. Humans move species out of their natural range and into a new area. The new species prey upon, compete with, change habitat for, or otherwise harm native species, resulting in their extinction. This is a particularly important threat on islands and other isolated habitats, where introduced predators may decimate native prey species that are not adapted to their presence. Ion An atom or molecule that has gained or lost one or more electrons and consequently has a positive or a negative charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. Ionic Bond An attractive force generated by the interactions between ions of opposite charges. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. In the formation of an ionic bond, electrons are said to be transferred from one atom to another. Isotonic Having the same solute concentration as another solution. Isotopes Two atoms with the same atomic number (because they are the same element and have the same number of protons), but different atomic mass (because they have different numbers of neutrons). Carbon-12 (the number after the hyphen, 12 in this example, indicates the atomic mass), which has 6 protons and 6 neutrons and Carbon-13, which has 6 protons and 7 neutrons are two isotopes of carbon. Karyotype Diagrammatic representation of an organism's genome. An image of the chromosomes of a cell in metaphase where the chromosomes are arranged in pairs by centromere position and size. Karyotypes are used to count and analyze the chromosomes of an individual and can also be used in the determination of chromosomal abnormalities. Keystone Species A species that has an unexpectedly strong effect on the stability or diversity of a community that is much larger than its abundance or biomass would suggest. Kinetic Energy The energy of motion -- illustrated by the jumping stick figure below. By P. Fraundorf (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Kinetochore Proteins on the centromere where microtubules attach. These attached microtubules are called kinetochore microtubules. Lac Operator A segment of DNA that is recognized by the lac repressor protein. When the lac repressor protein is bound to the operator, no mRNA is made from the genes that encode lactose metabolism. Lac Repressor A protein, produced by the lacI gene, that binds to the lac repressor DNA sequence, regulating the transcription of genes required for lactose metabolism. The repressor is bound to the operator in the absense of lactose, and released from the operator when lactose is present. Law of Independent Assortment Each pair of alleles segregates separately of any other pair of alleles when gametes are formed. Law of Segregation States that the two alleles for each gene separate from each other when gametes form, so that each gamete contains one allele of each gene. Ligand An atom, ion, or molecule that binds to another, usually larger chemical structure, to form a complex. Lipids Organic marcromolecules that are largely nonpolar (electrons are evenly distributed amongst atoms in a molecule) and as a result are hydrophobic (“water-fearing”). Lipids perform many functions in the cell including: storage of energy for long-term use in the form of fats, insulation from the environment, and building blocks for hormones. Lipids include fats, oils, waxes, phospholipids, and steroids. Macroevolution A change in a biological lineage including the origin or extinction of species. This is evolution beyond the species level. Macromolecule A large and complex molecule formed by combining smaller subunits producing a larger unit consisting of many atoms with new properties. Biological macromolecules are special large macromolecules produced by living organisms that contain carbon atoms covalently bonded to hydrogen atoms. There are four main types of biological macromolecules (sometimes referred to as biomolecules or biomacromolecules) that you will be learning about in this course: carbohydrates, nucleic acids, lipids, and proteins. Matter Anything that occupies space and has mass. The substance, consisting of atoms and subatomic particles, composing all physical objects. Meiosis A type of cell division in which a single, diploid germ cell is divided into four, haploid gamete cells. Meiosis only occurs in organisms that sexually reproduce and results in the production of sperm in males and eggs in females. Meiosis II The second half of the whole process of meiosis in which the sister chromatids in each of the two haploid cells produced during meiosis I are separated. Meiosis II results in the production of four haploid gamate cells and is similar in process to mitosis. Messenger RNA (mRNA) The type of RNA molecules that contain instructions for making a protein. Metabolic Pathways Metabolism is the sum of all chemical activity within a living organism; it is the sum of all of the metabolic pathways within an organism. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical conversions, each of which is catalyzed (generally speeded up, but sometimes slowed down) by an enzyme (protein catalyst). Cellular respiration and fermentation are metabolic pathways that break down chemicals, such as glucose to build ATP. Photosynthesis is a metabolic pathway that uses light energy to build carbohydrates. Metaphase This is a stage of mitosis where the sister chromatids connected by centromeres are lined up along the plane of the cell's center (called the metaphase plate). Microevolution Occurs when the type or frequency of the alleles and genotypes in a population change over one to many generations of time Microorganism A life form that cannot be seen with the naked eye; also called a microbe. Microorganisms include bacteria, many single-celled eukaryotes (plants, animals, fungi, and small creatures called protists), and even some multicellular life forms. Microtubules One type of fiber that makes up the cytoskeleton of a eukaryotic cell. Microtubules consist of proteins called tubulins. Microtubules aide in cell structure and movement and are also responsible for moving the chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis. Mitochondrion (pl. mitochondria) - the powerhouse of eukaryotic cell; the organelle whose primary function is to perform cellular respiration, to convert chemical energy into a form that can be used directly by the cell -- Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP). Enclosed by two concentric membranes, it is where most of the cell's ATP is made. A mitochondrion contains its own DNA as a single circular chromosome. Mitosis A type of cellular division in which a single, diploid, somatic cell is divided into two genetically identical daughter cells. Mitosis along with cytokinesis compose the mitotic (M) phase of the cell cycle. Mitotic Phase The phase in which the cell first divides its nucleus and then the cytoplasm. Molecule Two or more atoms held together by a chemical bond. Composition and size are two charateristics of a molecule. The diagram below illustrates a molecule of methane (CH4) consisting of four hydrogen (H) atoms covalently bonded to one carbon (C) atom. Methane is a small molecule composed of 5 atoms. Other molecules, such as polysaccharides or proteins, may be humongous containing thousands of atoms bonded together. Other characteristics of a molecule are the structure (three dimensional shape), chemical reactivitiy, and solvency. Molecular Formula Representation of atomic composition of a molecule. Molecular formula tells us what atoms and how many of them make up the molecule, but does not tell us anything about arrangement of the atoms (see related term molecular/chemical structure). Examples: the molecular formula of water is H2O, carbon dioxide is CO2, and sugar glucose is C6H12O6. Monomer A small organic molecule that may bind chemically to other molecules to form a polymer. A monomer is a repeating structural unit of a polymer. For example, glucose is a monomer that makes up polysaccharide starch, and amino acids are monomers that make up proteins. Monohybrid Cross Cross between two organisms, each of which is heterozygous for the trait. Monosaccharide A simple sugar (carbohydrate) containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms in a 1:2:1 ratio respectively. Some common monosaccharides are glucose, fructose, and ribose. Mutation Changes to the DNA nucleotide sequence. A permanent, irreversible, and heritable change in DNA. Mutualism A type of interspecific interaction where both species benefit. Natural Selection A process by which nature (i.e. the environment and all of its components) impacts the evolution of a population. Neutral Substances that are neutral, like pure water, have equal concentrations of hydrogen (H+) and hydroxide (OH-) ions. Neutralization The process of combining an acid with a base, in which the hydrogen ion/proton (H+) that was associated with water (as a hydronium ion, H3O+) combines with the hydroxide ion (OH-) to produce water (HOH). The general form of a neutralization reaction is: acid + base → salt + water Neutron Subatomic particle with a neutral charge that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Nitrogenous Base A molecule that is one of the three components that make a nucleotide. There are five bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), thymine (T), and uracil (U). The DNA structure consist of four bases: A, C, G, and T. The RNA molecule contains the bases: A, C, G, and U. Non-Polar Amino Acid An amino acid with non-polar side chains contain, primarily, hydrocarbons and no polar functional groups containing electronegative atoms. Note that the term “non-polar” refers only to the side chain, while the amino acid as a whole is charged at physiological pH due to the carboxyl and amino groups. Non-polar Functional Groups Functional groups of a molecule that do not contain an electronegative atom; therefore, the functional group is non-polar. An example is a methy group -CH3. Nondisjunction The failure of sister chromatids or homologous chromosomes to separate during anaphase of either mitosis or meiosis. Nucleic Acids Organic macromolecules, built from nucleotides, that carry out two main functions in the cell: storage of genetic information and synthesis of proteins. DNA and RNA are both nucleic acids. Nucleoid A specific region in the cytoplasm of a prokaryotic cell where genetic material (DNA) is stored. Nucleosomes A packaging unit of DNA in a eukaryotic cell consisting of DNA wound around a protein core composed of eight histone molecules. Nucleotides Molecules that make up the individual structural sub-units of the nucleic acids RNA and DNA. Each nucleotide is made up of three components: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. Nucleus (plural, nuclei) The word nucleus is used in two different contexts in the study of biology. Loosely defined, nucleus means "center" or "core." Here, in a study of basic chemistry, nucleus means "the center of an atom." In this case, the nucleus is a central area in which the atom’s heavy particles (protons and neutrons) are packed close together. When discussing cell structure, the word nucleus refers to the central organelle of the eukaryotic cell. It consists of the cell’s DNA enclosed in a double-layered membrane and can be thought of as the “command center” of the eukaryotic cell. Nutrients Forms of matter that an organism requires and that the organism cannot make for itself. Nutrients must be taken in from the outside environment. Humans obtain nutrients from the food we eat and the water we drink. Plants take up nutrients through their roots (water and dissolved minerals) and from the air (carbon dioxide gas). Operon Collection of genes that are transcribed on the same mRNA from a single promoter. Usually, all of the genes code for enzymes in a single biochemical pathway, allowing coordinated control of the expression of all of the enzymes in one pathway. Organ A collection of tissues grouped together based on a common general function. Some common organs in the human body are the heart, lungs, and kidneys. Organ System Functionally-related organs that work together to carry out a function throughout an organism’s body. Your body is made up of many organ systems, including the skeletal, digestive, and circulatory systems. Organelle A specialized structure within a cell formed when a specific set of molecules bond, creating a subunit that has a specific function. Most, but not all, organelles are enclosed by a membrane. In eukaryotes, organelles are membrane-bound compartments that contain specific groups of macromolecules that carry out specific cellular functions. Although, prokaryotes are less complex than eukaryotes, they contain subunits (non-membrane bound structures) that perform specific functions, such as the flagellum and the ribosome. Organic Molecules Molecules containing a carbon atom that is covalently bonded to a hydrogen atom (C-H bonds). Many organic molecules also contain oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. All living organisms are composed of four major classes of large carbon-containing molecules: proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids. The term organic is in common use these days. For example, you can buy organically grown tomatoes or clothes made from organically grown cotton. In these cases, organic refers to the way the tomatoes and cotton were grown — without the use of man-made pesticides or fertilizers, and nurtured only by natural substances. Here, organic is used to denote a natural process. You can see then that the word organic is used in two different ways. Be careful not to confuse the two. It can also be said that organic molecules (such as carbon-containing proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids) are natural molecules. But not all naturally-occurring molecules contain carbon, for example, water and common table salt. Are water and salt naturally occurring? Yes. But are they organic? No, because they are not built from carbon. Organism An organism is an individual living entity that survives and reproduces as a unit. Examples include a single bacterial cell, a plant grown from a single seed, or you—as an individual human being. Any life form - animal, plant, fungus, bacteria, protist, or single-celled entity. Origin of Replication A sequence of DNA that serves as a binding site for proteins involved in initiating DNA replication. Osmosis The diffusion of water across a selectively permeable membrane. Overharvesting Human harvesting—hunting, fishing, logging, gathering, and so on — removes individuals more quickly than they can be replaced by natural reproduction. This was historically a major threat in North America and Europe, but today most fish and wildlife resources are fairly well-protected. Open ocean fisheries and tropical mammals, by contrast, are heavily impacted by human harvesting today. P Generation Parental generation. Passive Transport The diffusion of a substance across a biological membrane without any input of energy. Pedigree Mapping or charting of a family history, showing the occurrence of a trait or characteristic. Mated individuals are connected by a horizontal line, and children are connected to them by vertical branches extending down from the line. Individuals expressing a genetic trait are shaded; and, individuals not expressing the trait are not shaded. Maps used to trace genetic traits through generations of individuals. Symbols: Males are squares. Females are circles. Peptide Bond A covalent bond that links amino acids together to form proteins. Produced when the carboxyl group of one amino acid reacts with the amino group of another amino acid. Peripheral Proteins A protein loosely bound to the surface of the plasma membrane. Periodic Chart A tabular categorization of all of the elements arranged in order of increasing atomic number. Also called the Periodic Table, the table is organized such that elements with similar properties are grouped in the same column (called a chemical group) and elements with the same number of electron shells appear in the same row (called a period). Periodic table of the chemical elements. By Cepheus [ Public Domain] via Wikimedia Commons. pH A measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in a solution. Solutions with a pH less than 7 are acidic. Solutions with a pH of 7 are neutral. Solutions with a pH greater than 7 are basic. A one-point change in pH is equal to a ten-fold difference in the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+). Phenotype Physical or physiological characteristic present; also defined as the manifestation of the genes in an organism. Photosynthesis A metabolic pathway that uses light energy to build carbohydrates from CO2. The overall equation for photosynthesis is: CO2 + H20 + light → sugar + O2 Phospholipid Bilayer Membrane A double layer of phospholipid molecules (each molecule consisting of a phosphate group bonded to two fatty acids) that is the primary component of all cellular membranes. Phylogenetic Tree Phylogenetic tree (also called phylogeny), is a tree diagram that represents a hypothesis as to how a biological lineage may have branched and formed clades over time. Remember that as a hypothesis, phylogenetic trees are subject to change as more data are gathered and as analysis techniques improve. A phylogenetic tree of living things, based on RNA data and proposed by Carl Woese, showing the separation of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. By Eric Gaba, NASA Astrobiology Institute. [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons Physical Disturbance Humans reshape the physical structure of ecosystems by clearing forests, suppressing or setting fires, building roads and cities, mining, maintaining croplands, and building water control structures such as dams. This leads to biodiversity loss. It may also increase our exposure to forest fires, floods, droughts, soil erosion, landslides, and other physical hazards. Pigment Pigments are colored substances that absorb light energy. Different colored pigments absorb different wavelengths of light. The color of the pigment that we see is the wavelength that the pigment reflects (and does not absorb). The light energy absorbed by these pigments can be converted to chemical energy in the process of photosynthesis. Placebo A substance having no medicinal benefit that is administered to the control group in a study so that these study participants do no know if they are in the control or experimental group. Placebos in drug trials are often sugar pills or a vitamin formulated to look like the drug being tested. Interestingly, sometimes patients taking a placebo will report that they notice an improvement in the medical condition the drug is designed to treat or even experience a real medical improvement all because they think they are taking the new drug. This phenomenon is called the placebo effect. Plasma Membrane A structure surrounding all types of cells, separating it from the external environment. It constitutes a semipermeable boundary, where certain substances can cross and others cannot. Chemically, the plasma membrane (also called the cell membrane) is a double layer of phospholipids (phospholipid bilayer) in which proteins, and sometimes sterols, are embedded. Pleiotropy Single gene with multiple effects. Polar Amino Acid An amino acid with polar side chains contain polar uncharged groups, for example amide and hydroxyl. Polar Covalent Bond A covalent bond that forms between a highly electronegative atom (e.g. N and O) and a non-highly electronegative atom. This results in an uneven distribution of the charge (because the electrons spend more time around the electronegative atom) causing one end of the bond to have a more positive charge on the end with the non-electronegative atom and a more negative charge on the end with the electronegative atom. Polar Functional Groups Functional groups that contain an electronegative atom rendering the functional group polar. Examples are the hydroxyl group (-OH), carboxylic acids, and amino groups(-NH3+). Pollution Materials released or discarded by humans that harm human health or life in ecosystems. Wastes generated by human activities change habitat conditions or threaten the health of organisms directly. Nutrient pollution, for example, is a global problem that harms the diversity of aquatic and some terrestrial communities. Pollution of the atmosphere by greenhouse gases generates climate change, a problem so complex and severe that it is often counted as a separate threat category. Polygenic A single trait resulting from the interaction of multiple genes. Polymer These are large molecules consisting of repeating structural units, or monomers, connected by covalent chemical bonds. Larger organic molecules (macromolecules) consist of a carbon/oxygen/nitrogen skeleton (backbone) with other atoms branching off from this structure. Polysaccharide A carbohydrate consisting of long chains of monosaccharides. Some common polysaccharides are starch, glycogen, and cellulose. Population All the individuals of a single species living within the same area and are likely to breed with one another. Potential Energy Stored energy. Energy stored in chemical bonds (chemical energy) is a type of potential energy. Potential energy can be released to do work. In the illustration below, when the spring is coiled it has potential energy. The potential energy is released when the spring stretches. By Matthias Kabel (Wikipedia) CC BY-SA 3.0 Predation A type of interspecific interaction where one species (predator) kills and eats the other species (prey). Principle of Dominance States that some traits are dominant and can mask recessive traits. Producers Organisms that make simple organic food molecules from inorganic raw materials using light energy from the sun and do not consume other living organisms to obtain nutrients. Producers make up trophic level 1 in most ecosystems. Plants, algae, and cyanobacteria are examples of producers. Prokaryotic Cell A type of cell (also called prokaryotes) lacking a nucleus and other membrane-bound organelles. Prokaryotic cells are unicellular organism found only in the domains bacteria and archaea. Promoter The sequence of DNA to which RNA polymerase binds. Prophase This is the first stage of mitosis. In prophase, the nucleus is broken down, the chromosomes (duplicated during the S phase of the cell cycle) condense, and the mitotic spindles form. Proteins Organic macromolecules made up of amino acids connected by peptide bonds. Proteins serve many functions, some of which include: catalyzing reactions as enzymes, storage, replication, transmission, and regulation of genetic information, and helping maintain structure in an organism. Proton A positively charged subatomic particle that is contained in the nucleus and has a mass of approximately 1 atomic mass unit. Punnett Square Table method used to assess probabilities of outcomes in genetics. Recessive Describes a trait that is masked by the dominant trait and is only expressed in the homozygous condition. Renewable Resource Material used or consumed by humans that can be replenished sufficiently to prevent complete consumption of that material. Resources are renewed through growth or other ongoing processes. Reproduction The process by which an individual organism gives rise to offspring, passing on its genetic information to the next generation. Repressor Protein that binds to DNA near promoter sites, reducing the amount of mRNA that is generated from that promoter, and consequently the amount of protein that is translated from the mRNA. The ability of the repressor to bind to DNA is often controlled by small molecules, i.e. the lac repressor is released from DNA in the presence of lactose. Resource Depletion Material used or consumed by humans that is nearing or at depletion and may not be replenishable. Currently, the average citizen of a developed nation consumes an average of 16 tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels, and biomass per year. Shortages may result if humans use resources at an unsustainable rate. Wild plants and animals may be harvested to the point of extinction. Degradation of soil can lead to crop failures. Minerals and fossil fuels may be depleted to the point where their extraction becomes increasingly expensive and disruptive. Restriction Endonuclease An enzyme that recognizes and cleaves a specific DNA sequence. Example: EcoR1 binds to the sequence GAATTC and cleaves between the G and the A. Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) The nucleic acid composed of nucleotides in a single strand whose primary function is protein synthesis. Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) The type of RNA that is component of a ribosome, and which assists with the process of translating the instructions for making proteins that are present in messenger RNA (mRNA). Ribosome A cellular structure consisting of RNA and protein organized into two subunits and functioning as the site of protein synthesis in the cytoplasm. The ribosomal subunits are constructed in the nucleolus. In prokaryotes ribosomes are found in the cytoplasm; however, in eukaryotes they are mainy associated with part of the endoplasmic reticulum, named rough endoplasmic reticulum -- due to its dotted appearance. Ribosome Binding Site Sequence on mRNA that is responsible for binding of the mRNA to prokaryotic ribosomes. RNA Polymerase Enzyme involved in transcription, build an RNA strand using DNA as a template. Saturated Fats One type of the long fatty acid molecules comprising fats and olis (i.e., triglycerides). Saturated fatty acids have no carbon-carbon double bonds. All of the carbon-carbon bonds are single bonds and each carbon is bonded to two or three hydrogen atoms; each carbon is “saturated” with hydrogen. All the bonds are single therefore the entire fatty acid can form a linear shape. Saturated fats tend to have a higher melting point and are likely to be solid at room temparature; e.g., butter and lard. Scientific Experiment A structured and active process used to test a hypothesis. In an experiment, the scientist has some form of control over the variables at work in the system under study. Typically some variable is deliberately changed by the experimenter and other variables are monitored to see if they change as a result. Scientific Inquiry The application of scientific observation, experimentation and the scientific method to study, interpret and predict natural phenomena in the world around us. Scientific Observation A process used to explore and describe patterns in nature. In a strictly observational study, the scientist does not have control over the conditions or variables at work in the system under study. The scientist reports what has happened without taking steps to intervene in the system. Segregation The two alleles for each trait separate when gametes form. Selection Process in which characteristics of a population change predictably over many generations. Selection takes forms such as natural selection (favors traits that aid in survival to reproductive age), sexual selection (favors traits that boost mating success), and artificial selection (favors traits that are chosen by human breeders). Selective Permeability A property of the cell membrane wherein only certain molecules or ions can cross the membrane by diffusion. This property allows the membrane to regulate the passage of substances across them. In this way the cell can maintain homeostasis by controlling what enters and exits the cell. Sex-Linked Describes a trait associated to alleles located on sex chromosomes, most commonly it is X-linked. Sexual Reproduction A more complicated form of reproduction where two haploid, gametes (sperm and egg) fuse to create a diploid zygote. This type of reproduction produces offspring that are genetically different from their parents. Sexual Selection Natural selection arising through preference by one sex for certain characteristics in individuals of the other sex. Simple Diffusion The spontaneous movement of particles of any kind down a concentration gradient; that is, movement of particles from where they are more concentrated to where they are less concentrated. Sister Chromatid One of two identical copies of a chromosome duplicated during the S phase of the cell cycle. A centromere connects two sister chromatids together. When joined together sister chromatids compose one chromosome, and chromatids are separated from each other during mitosis or meiosis. Solute Component of a solution that is present in the smallest quantity and which dissolves in a solvent. Solutions Homogeneous mixtures of solvent and solute. Solvent Component of a solution that is present in the greatest quantity and in which something else is dissolved. Somatic Cell Any nonreproductive cell found in multicellular organisms. That is, any cell except a germ cell or gametes (sperm and egg cells) found in a muticellular organism. Examples are lung and heart cells, nerve cells, and blood cells. Speciation Speciation is the formation of new biological lineage as one species splits into two or more species. Species A group of organisms whose members can and will breed with each other to produce fertile offspring. Species Richness The number of different species of organisms present in a given area. This is a statistic used to describe an ecological community. Spontaneous Generation A disproven principle stating that life could originate from inanimate matter on an ongoing basis. Starch A branching polysaccharides consisting of linked glucose molecules. Starch is made by producers, not animals. Starch can be broken down into individual glucose molecules that can be used to build ATP. Start Codon Codon in the mRNA that represents the first amino acid to be incorporated. It is almost always AUG. Sterols Also known as steroid alcohols, these are an important subgroup of steroids widely distributed in animal and plant lipids. The most familiar type of animal sterol is cholesterol which builds steroid hormones, are sources for vitamins D and K, and helps maintain cell membrane consistency. Sticky End A single stranded end on DNA. Produced by the activity of most restriction endonucleases. The bases on one single stranded segment can "stick" to another single stranded end by forming complementary hydrogen bonds between the bases on each strand. Stop Codon Codon in the mRNA that signals the termination of the polypeptide chain. Three stop codons are UAG, UAA, or UGA. Substrate A molecule that binds to the active site of an enzyme. Upon bonding to the enzyme, the substrate molecule is converted into a new molecule. That is, the enzyme converts the substrate(s) into a different chemical arrangement. Subunit Structural unit of a larger molecule or a protein in a multi-protein complex. This term is similar, but not identical to the term monomer. Surface Tension The capacity of a liquid’s surface to resist being ruptured when placed under tension or stress. Sustainable Technology Solutions that meet human economic and social needs while preserving the productivity or biodiversity of ecosystems over a long period of time. Symbiosis A type of direct community interaction between pairs of species that are intimately and physically connected, with a smaller species (symbiont) living in or on the body of a larger species (host). These direct interactions are described using the term symbiosis, which translates to “together living.” Sympatric Speciation The formation of a new species (from within a population) in the same geographic area without a known geographical barrier that divides them today or in the recent geologic past. Telophase This is the final stage of mitosis. In telophase, new nuclear envelopes form around the separated chromosomes at each pole of the cell, the chromosomes unfold back into chromatin, nucleoli reappear, and the cell continues to elongate. Terminator A sequence of DNA at the end of the mRNA that signals the termination of transcription by RNA polymerase. Tissue A groups of similar cells carrying out the same detailed function within an organism. In the lung, for instance, the lining of airways comprises one type of tissue: a layer of similar cells that forms a sealed surface. Trait Form of a characteristic represented. Transfer RNA (tRNA) The type of RNA, directly involved in protein synthesis, that transports amino acids to ribosomes to be incorporated into an emerging protein. Transformation Change in genotype and phenotype resulting from assimilation of outside DNA. Translation The process by which the information stored in messenger RNA is used to synthesize proteins. The information in the RNA (a nucleic acid) is converted to a new chemical form, amino acids. Transport Protein A membrane protein that helps move substances across a cell membrane. Transcription Reading the DNA and encoding an mRNA molecule with information to be taken to protein-synthesizing regions of the cell. It is the process through which a complementary copy of protein-coding mRNA is synthesized, using one strand of DNA as a template. The new RNA strand is identical to the complement of the single strand of DNA from which it was transcribed except that the base thymine (T) in the DNA strand is replaced by the base uracil (U) in the RNA strand. Triglycerides A type of lipid (also known as fats and oils) used to store energy long term. Fats are synthesized from two different classes of molecules: fatty acids and alcohol. Fats and oils have three long carbon chains attached to glycerol (a short carbon chain). There are many different triglyceriders; some are highly saturated and some are unsaturated. Trophic Level Groupings of species in a community based on their feeding relationships. These food based groupings are called trophic levels. Trophic level 1 is composed of producers that form the base of all ecosystems. Organisms in level 1 are eaten by organisms in level 2; organisms in level 2 are eaten by organisms in level 3; organisms in level 3 are by organisms in level 4, and so on. True-Breeding Describes organisms that when bred only have offspring with the same phenotype as the parents; the organism is homozygous at the genotypes of interest. Unsaturated Fats One type of the long fatty acid molecules comprising fats and olis (i.e., triglycerides). Unsaturated fatty acids have one, two, or even three double bonds along the carbon “backbone.” In each double bond, the carbons are bonded to only one hydrogen atom. These fatty acids have less hydrogen; and thus, are “unsaturated” with hydrogen. Unsaturated fats tend to have a lower melting point and will remain fluid at room temperature. They are called oils and are commonly produced by plants; for example olive oil, corn oil, and canola oil. Valence Electrons The electrons in the outermost shell of the atom, which are available for chemical bonding. This diagram of a carbon atom illustrates that carbon has four (4) valence electrons. Variable A characteristic of a subject that can vary from one subject to the next or over time. A variable may be a category to which a subject can be assigned (for example: male or female) or it may be measured precisely (for example: body mass). Vesicle A membranous sac in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells used to isolate and transport materials in a cell. Virus An acellular infectious particle, made of a nucleic acid surrounded by a protein coat and sometimes with an additional envelope. Viruses need to infect a host in order to replicate. Zygote The newly formed diploid cell that is produced when two haploid gametes unite. In animals this occurs when a sperm fertilizes an egg.   Definitions of Terms The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Aldose A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. Refer to page. Allosteric Binding Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme. Refer to page. Catalyst A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Enzymes are not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Refer to page. Chirality When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. Refer to page. Covalent bond Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.) The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom. Refer to page. De novo synthesis De novo is new synthesis from simple molecules such as deoxynucleotides in this case without a starting place - the primer. Refer to page. Electronegativity The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Electronegativity increases as one moves from left to right, across the periodic chart. Because the electronegative atoms have the potential to attract electrons, i.e., the electrons spend more time on the electronegative atom, a molecule containing an electronegative atom will have partial negative charge associated with that atom (as indicated by δ-). The the bonding partner in the covalent bond becomes partially positively charged (as indicated by δ+ ). Refer to page. Eukaryotes An organism with complex cells with distinctive traits such as a nucleaus, membrane-bound organelles, a cytoskeleton, and the presence of introns in genes. Refer to page. Furanose Cyclic sugars that contain a five membered ring are called furanoses. Refer to page. Genome the complete DNA sequence of one set of chromosomes from an organism. Refer to page. Hydrogen Bond The attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. However, only hydrogens covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Refer to page. Hydrophilic Hydrophilic (from Greek meaning "water-loving") refers to molecules that are water soluble. Hydrophilic molecules contain polar functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds with water. Refer to page. Hydrophobic Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Refer to page. Ionic Bond An ion is an atom or a molecule that carries a charge. Negatively charged ions, called anions, form when a neutral molecule or atom gains one or more electrons. Positively charged ions, called cations, form when a neutral molecule or atom looses one or more electrons. Ionic bonds are interactions between oppositely charged ions. An ionic bond forms due to an attraction between a positive and a negative ion. No electron sharing occurs in the ionic bond. Refer to page. Ketose A carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) that is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus making this carbonyl a ketone, is a ketose. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. Refer to page. Polymer These are large molecules consisting of repeating structural units, or monomers, connected by covalent chemical bonds. Refer to page. Prokaryotes A unicellular organizm lacking certain complex cell features, such as a membrane-bound nucleus and gene introns. Refer to page. Subunit Structural unit of a larger molecule or a protein in a multi-protein complex. This term is similar, but not identical to the term monomer.   Definitions of Terms The following is the list of terms defined in this course. Aldose A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. Refer to page. Allosteric Binding Allosteric binding causes conformational changes in an enzyme that can either inhibit or activate the enzyme. Refer to page. Catalyst A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. Refer to page. Chirality When identical groups attached to a carbon are arranged in multiple ways such that two of the resulting structures are non-superimposable, they are mirror images of each other. Refer to page. Covalent bond Covalent bonds represent the sharing of the electrons (negatively charged subatomic particles between atoms.) The number of covalent bonds that can form is dictated by the number of unpaired electrons in the outer valence shell of the atom. Refer to page. De novo synthesis De novo is new synthesis from simple molecules such as deoxynucleotides in this case without a starting place - the primer. Refer to page. Electronegativity The tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself. Electronegativity increases as one moves from left to right, across the periodic chart. Because the electronegative atoms have the potential to attract electrons, i.e., the electrons spend more time on the electronegative atom, a molecule containing an electronegative atom will have partial negative charge associated with that atom (as indicated by δ-). The the bonding partner in the covalent bond becomes partially positively charged (as indicated by δ+ ). Refer to page. Eukaryotes An organism with complex cells with distinctive traits such as a nucleaus, membrane-bound organelles, a cytoskeleton, and the presence of introns in genes. Refer to page. Furanose Cyclic sugars that contain a five membered ring are called furanoses. Refer to page. Genome the complete DNA sequence of one set of chromosomes from an organism. Refer to page. Hydrogen Bond The attraction of an electronegative atom for a hydrogen that is covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. This involves the attraction of a hydrogen with a partial positive charge to an atom with a partial negative charge. However, only hydrogens covalently bonded to an electronegative atom can participate in hydrogen bonding. Refer to page. Hydrophilic We need a good definition and image here Because polar molecules are generally water soluble, they are referred to as being hydrophilic, or water-loving. Refer to page. Hydrophobic Hydrophobic, or water-fearing, molecules do not interact with water and are characterized by a complete lack of electronegative atoms. In aqueous solutions the hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. Refer to page. Ionic Bond An ion is an atom or molecule which has lost or gained one or more electrons, making it positively or negatively charged.We need a complete definition Ionic bonds form between oppositely charged atoms. No electron sharing or transfer occurs. The atoms are attracted to each other due to their opposite charges. Refer to page. Ketose A carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) that is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus making this carbonyl a ketone, is a ketose. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. Refer to page. Polymer These are large molecules consisting of repeating structural units, or monomers, connected by covalent chemical bonds. Refer to page. Prokaryotes A unicellular organizm lacking certain complex cell features, such as a membrane-bound nucleus and gene introns. Refer to page. 