7. [u'structure', u'structurally', u'structural']
   Product Formation   Effect of Temperature on Protein folding   Protein Ligand Affinity Upon completion of this topic, students will be able to recognize, and describe, the reversible binding of proteins with their ligands. The number of the contacts between a protein and its ligand and the environment of the binding pocket determine how tightly the ligand binds to the protein. It is difficult to predict how tightly a ligand will bind to a protein or to predict the structure of ligands that will bind tightly a binding pocket of a known protein. There is intensive research in this area and forms the basis for many computational studies used in drug discovery laboratories. The tightness of the binding is a measurable parameter and describes the affinity of a ligand for a protein. In the previous section the binding of oxygen to myoglobin was defined by the equation: M + O <=> [MO] This equation describes an association of two molecules. In the previous analysis of weak electrolytes we wrote the dissociation of a weak acid as the taking apart of a molecule that was bound by a weak covalent bond. While there are no covalent bonds being formed during the association of oxygen and myoglobin, there is the same type of equilibrium established between the association of myoglobin and the dissociation of the weak acid. Thus, where we used a Kd (K) as a constant that defined the strength of the weak electrolyte's ability to retain its proton, it is also possible to define the affinity of the ligand for the protein by a constant referred to as the equilibrium constant, Keq. For the association reaction as it is written above, the equilibrium constant would be expressed as follows: Keq = [ MO ] [ M ] * [ O ] In general the affinity of the ligand will increase proportionately as the number of specific interactions between the ligand and the protein increase. In the example of the binding pocket of the estrogen receptor there are several hydrogen bond contacts and a hydrophobic pocket for the mostly hydrophobic estrogen. Other protein ligand binding interactions are based on fewer contacts, as in the case of oxygen binding to myoglobin and thus the affinity is lower.   Protein Ligand Binding Equilibrium By the end of this module, students will be able to: Recognize, and describe, the reversible binding of proteins with their ligands. Define equilibrium binding and describe how it is dynamic. Draw a graph of equilibrium binding. Explain the parallels between protein-ligand binding and weak electrolyte dissociation. Describe the effect of changing ligand concentration on an equilibrium. As discussed previously, proteins bind and release their ligands. In this section we will explore the reversible binding and the equilibrium state. We will use myoglobin, as an example, to explore the equilibrium established between the bound protein ligand complex and free reactants. Myoglobin is a single polypeptide chain protein that binds oxygen to create an oxygen buffer in muscle cells. The reversibly binding of oxygen to myoglobin can be expressed as follows: Myoglobin + Oxygen <=> [Myoglobin Oxygen] M + O <=> [MO] By reversibly binding oxygen, myoglobin acts as an oxygen buffer. When free oxygen is high myoglobin binds oxygen and the equilibrium shifts to the right. If the oxygen concentration falls the equilibrium shifts to the left to free oxygen and protein. The change in equilibrium is only possible because protein ligand binding is reversible. The direction of the equilibrium, either towards more complex or towards free reactants, depends primarily on the amount of free oxygen in the cell. Oxygen supply is always changing depending on activity level. Myoglobin supply is essentially constant in the cell since protein synthesis is relatively a much slower process. In the Learn By Doing below, you will explore the equilibrium between free protein, ligand, and the complex, and how ligand concentration affects the equilibrium.   Protein Ligand Binding Equilibrium Be able to recognize, and describe, the reversible binding of proteins with their ligands. Be able define equilibrium binding and describe how it is dynamic. Be able to draw a graph of equilibrium binding. Understand the parallels between protein-ligand binding and weak electrolyte dissociation. Understand the effect of changing ligand concentration on an equilibrium. As discussed previously, proteins bind and release their ligands. In this section we will explore the reversible binding and the equilibrium state. We will use myoglobin, as an example, to explore the equilibrium established between the bound protein ligand complex and free reactants. Myoglobin is a single polypeptide chain protein that binds oxygen to create an oxygen buffer in muscle cells. The reversibly binding of oxygen to myoglobin can be expressed as follows: Myoglobin + Oxygen <=> [Myoglobin Oxygen] M + O <=> [MO] By reversibly binding oxygen, myoglobin acts as an oxygen buffer. When free oxygen is high myoglobin binds oxygen and the equilibrium shifts to the right. If the oxygen concentration falls the equilibrium shifts to the left to free oxygen and protein. The change in equilibrium is only possible because protein ligand binding is reversible. The direction of the equilibrium, either towards more complex or towards free reactants, depends primarily on the amount of free oxygen in the cell. Oxygen supply is always changing depending on activity level. Myoglobin supply is essentially constant in the cell since protein synthesis is relatively a much slower process. In the Learn By Doing below, you will explore the equilibrium between free protein, ligand, and the complex, and how ligand concentration affects the equilibrium. Equilibrium of complex formation   Protein Ligand Binding Equilibrium Be able to recognize, and describe, the reversible binding of proteins with their ligands. Be able define equilibrium binding and describe how it is dynamic. Be able to draw a graph of equilibrium binding. Understand the parallels between protein-ligand binding and weak electrolyte dissociation. Understand the effect of changing ligand concentration on an equilibrium. As discussed previously, proteins bind and release their ligands. In this section we will explore the reversible binding and the equilibrium state. We will use myoglobin, as an example, to explore the equilibrium established between the bound protein ligand complex and free reactants. Myoglobin is a single polypeptide chain protein that binds oxygen to create an oxygen buffer in muscle cells. The reversibly binding of oxygen to myoglobin can be expressed as follows: Myoglobin + Oxygen <=> [Myoglobin Oxygen] M + O <=> [MO] By reversibly binding oxygen, myoglobin acts as an oxygen buffer. When free oxygen is high myoglobin binds oxygen and the equilibrium shifts to the right. If the oxygen concentration falls the equilibrium shifts to the left to free oxygen and protein. The change in equilibrium is only possible because protein ligand binding is reversible. The direction of the equilibrium, either towards more complex or towards free reactants, depends primarily on the amount of free oxygen in the cell. Oxygen supply is always changing depending on activity level. Myoglobin supply is essentially constant in the cell since protein synthesis is relatively a much slower process. In the Learn By Doing below, you will explore the equilibrium between free protein, ligand, and the complex, and how ligand concentration affects the equilibrium. Equilibrium of complex formation   Equilibrium of Complex Formation Click on link to open page. Start Simulator   Equilibrium of Complex Formation with Inhibitors present   Equilibrium of Complex Formation with Inhibitors present   Equilibrium of Complex Formation with Product   Equilibrium of Complex Formation with Product   Equilibrium of Complex Formation with Product   Protein Ligand Binding Equilibrium Be able to recognize and describe the reversible binding of proteins with their ligands. Be able to recognize the equilibrium of binding. Be able to draw a graph of equilibrium binding. Be able to describe ligand binding pocket. Be able to explain structurally the meaning of complementary fit. Many proteins bind to small molecules called ligands. Some proteins are enzymes that bind small molecules to convert them into other molecules. Some proteins act as transports by binding small molecules and ferrying them throughout the organism, or by moving them across lipid membranes. Other proteins act as small molecule buffers. Binding the ligand is based on energetically favorable non-covalent interactions, such as hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding, and hydrophobic interactions. Since the binding is non-covalent, the protein ligand binding is reversible, and the bound ligand can dissociate. This is represented in the following reaction diagram: M + L <=> [ML] The protein is represented as M (macromolecule) and the ligand as L. The double half-arrow is used to illustrate that M and L can associate and, once bound, can dissociate. The bound state is represented as ML and is enclosed in brackets to indicate that the complex is unstable. The reversible binding of the protein ligand complex is critical. For example, hemoglobin binds to oxygen in the lungs and releases it in the tissues. If oxygen were unable to dissociate from hemoglobin, the tissues would be starved of oxygen. Likewise, proteins act as signal receptors by binding to signaling molecules, such as hormones, to propagate the signal into a cell. If binding were permanent, there would be no way to terminate the signal. In this module, you will explore the equilibrium forces driving protein ligand binding using the oxygen buffering protein myoglobin.   Introduction to Protein Ligand Binding After studying about the binding of small molecules to proteins, students will be able to: Discern the difference between a ligand and a substrate. Describe the interactions that stabilize the protein-ligand complex. Protein - Ligand Interations In this module we will use all of the concepts previously introduced in the section on biological chemistry to study the interaction, or binding, of small molecules to proteins. If the small molecule binds to a protein, but undergoes no further changes, then it is referred to as a ligand. If the molecule binds to the protein, and then is changed by a protein-catalyzed chemical reaction, the small molecule is referred to as a substrate, the resultant altered compound is the product, and the protein becomes an enzyme. Although ligands and substrates are usually small molecules, proteins themselves can be ligands and substrates for other proteins/enzymes. Protein-ligand interactions serve several important functions in the cell. They may be responsible for buffering the ligand concentration and the transport of ligands. Oxygen binding to myoglobin is an example of buffering while the protein hemoglobin is involved in the transport of oxygen from the lungs to the tissues. It is also possible that binding the ligand causes the functionality of the protein to change from active to inactive, or from inactive to active. For example, the estrogen receptor protein, shown below in yellow and purple, binds DNA only when estrogen (red) is bound to the protein. Estrogen is the "key" that turns the estrogen receptor "on." In the figure below, the estrogen receptor is depicted with its secondary structure highlighted. As you can see it is mostly α-helices. The estrogen receptor represents a quaternary structure composed of a dimer of two protein chains shown as yellow and purple in the figure. 17-β-estradiol (an estrogen), the red space-filling balls, fits in a properly sized pocket on each of the proteins in the dimer. Only when both pockets of the dimer are occupied by estrogen is the receptor activated and able to bind to DNA. As you can see the estrogen binding pocket is only a small part of the total protein size. The estrogen receptor binds to estrogen and this causes estrogen receptor to bind to DNA and turn genes on and off. The result in some cells is the commencement of cell division. When estrogen falls off, estrogen can no longer bind DNA and division may stop. If estrogen did not dissociate from the estrogen receptor then cell division could not be controlled and cancer could result. Energetics of Protein-Ligand Complex Formation The binding of ligands and substrates relies primarily on the characteristics of the non-covalent bonds and the functional groups associated with both the protein and the small molecule. The interactions that can be used are: van der Waals interactions: the protein and its ligand are complementary in shape, optimizing the contact between the two surfaces. hydrogen bonding hydrophobic interactions, ionic bonds The functional groups that are responsible for these interactions are those found in the side chains of amino acids, the peptide bonds in the protein and the small molecule binding partner. Following some simple rules it is possible to predict how two molecules might interact. In some cases It is also possible to predict how a cell might alter physiological conditions to regulate that binding. You will explore that interactions that stabilize bound estrogen to the estrogen receptor in the following activity: Stabilization of Estrogen-Estrogen Receptor Complex Work through the following exercise to gain an understanding of the molecular forces that stabilize the complex between estrogen and its receptor. In most cases you will need to click on a button to alter the 3D structure shown on the left. Ligand Binding is Reversible Because protein and ligand interactions are non-covalent in nature it is possible for the ligand to dissociate from the protein. This reversible binding is critical and is generally represented as: Macromolecule (protein) + Ligand <=> [Macromolecule Ligand] M + L <=> [ML] The bound complex is surrounded by brackets, [ ], to indicate that the ligand is physically associated with the macromolecule. In the following pages you will explore reversible binding and how we can determine the strength of the interaction between a protein and its ligand by experimental measurements. In this module we will use all of the concepts previously introduced in the section on biological chemistry to study the interaction, or binding, of small molecules to proteins. If the small molecule binds to a protein, but undergoes no further changes, then it is referred to as a ligand. If the molecule binds to the protein, and then is changed by a protein-catalyzed chemical reaction, the small molecule is referred to as a substrate, the resultant altered compound is the product, and the protein becomes an enzyme. Although ligands and substrates are usually small molecules, proteins themselves can be ligands and substrates for other proteins/enzymes. Protein-ligand interactions serve several important functions in the cell. They may be responsible for buffering the ligand concentration and the transport of ligands. Oxygen binding to myoglobin is an example of buffering while the protein hemoglobin is involved in the transport of oxygen from the lungs to the tissues. It is also possible that binding the ligand causes the functionality of the protein to change from active to inactive, or from inactive to active. For example, the estrogen receptor protein, shown below in yellow and purple, binds DNA only when estrogen (red) is bound to the protein. Estrogen is the "key" that turns the estrogen receptor "on." In the figure below, the estrogen receptor is depicted with its secondary structure highlighted. As you can see it is mostly α-helices. The estrogen receptor represents a quaternary structure composed of a dimer of two protein chains shown as yellow and purple in the figure. 17-β-estradiol (an estrogen), the red space-filling balls, fits in a properly sized pocket on each of the proteins in the dimer. Only when both pockets of the dimer are occupied by estrogen is the receptor activated and able to bind to DNA. As you can see the estrogen binding pocket is only a small part of the total protein size. The estrogen receptor binds to estrogen and this causes estrogen receptor to bind to DNA and turn genes on and off. The result in some cells is the commencement of cell division. When estrogen falls off, estrogen can no longer bind DNA and division may stop. If estrogen did not dissociate from the estrogen receptor then cell division could not be controlled and cancer could result. The binding of ligands and substrates relies primarily on the characteristics of the non-covalent bonds and the functional groups associated with both the protein and the small molecule. The interactions that can be used are: van der Waals interactions: the protein and its ligand are complementary in shape, optimizing the contact between the two surfaces. hydrogen bonding hydrophobic interactions, ionic bonds The functional groups that are responsible for these interactions are those found in the side chains of amino acids, the peptide bonds in the protein and the small molecule binding partner. Following some simple rules it is possible to predict how two molecules might interact. In some cases It is also possible to predict how a cell might alter physiological conditions to regulate that binding. You will explore that interactions that stabilize bound estrogen to the estrogen receptor in the following activity: Stabilization of Estrogen-Estrogen Receptor Complex Work through the following exercise to gain an understanding of the molecular forces that stabilize the complex between estrogen and its receptor. In most cases you will need to click on a button to alter the 3D structure shown on the left. Because protein and ligand interactions are non-covalent in nature it is possible for the ligand to dissociate from the protein. This reversible binding is critical and is generally represented as: Macromolecule (protein) + Ligand <=> [Macromolecule Ligand] M + L <=> [ML] The bound complex is surrounded by brackets, [ ], to indicate that the ligand is physically associated with the macromolecule. In the following pages you will explore reversible binding and how we can determine the strength of the interaction between a protein and its ligand by experimental measurements.   Control of Enzyme Catalysis by Temperature Be able to describe how temperature affects protein kinetics. One mechanism to control product formation rate is through temperature. Velocity of product formation increases as temperature increases until a critical temperature is reached. This is shown in the graph below of product formation as a function of temperature. Product formation ceases beyond the critical point due to two effects of temperature. One effect is to decrease the hydrogen bonding between enzyme and substrate. Remember that hydrogen bonds are only 5 kcal/mol in strength. As temperature increases this small force is weak compared to the increase in molecular motion. Thus if the enzyme cannot bind the substrate, no product is formed. Velocity of Product formation versus temperature.Plotted is the velocity of product formation at different temperatures. Velocity increases as temperature increases until a critical temperature is reached. Beyond this temperature no product is formed. The second effect of temperature is to cause proteins to denature. Denaturation means that the protein loses the secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure required for function. The protein is held together in part by hydrogen bonds. As with substrate binding, hydrogen bonds are too weak to hold up in high heat.   Equilibrium of Complex Formation   Equilibrium of Complex Formation   Equilibrium of Complex Formation   Condensation: Formation of the Glycosidic Bond Upon examination of glycosidic bond formation, students will be able to: Identify a glycosidic bond. Recognize the anomeric carbon in the hemiacetal form of the carbohydrates. Describe condensation and hydrolysis. Define the criteria for formation of a glycosidic bond. While the monosaccharides can serve directly as sources of energy, as will be seen elsewhere in the course, they are also the building blocks for many molecules that are used for structure, energy storage and signaling. Here we will explore the process by which simple carbohydrates are linked together using a condensation reaction. Time will be spent on understanding this reaction since it is the same reaction that is used to link amino acids together to make proteins and fatty acids to glycerol to made the components of biological membranes. As described previously the aldehyde form of aldoses and ketone form of ketoses spontaneously form five and six member ring structures called furanoses and pyranoses respectively. This ring closure was an example of an alcohol functional group reacting with the carbon of the carbonyl functional group in either the aldehyde (aldose) or ketone (ketose) group. This is illustrated below. Notice that while atoms are moving from place to place on the structure, there is no net gain or loss of atoms in the closing of the ring to form what is referred to as a hemiacetal. Furthermore, this ring closure is freely reversible, which allows the alpha form of the ring to be in equilibrium with the beta form. Ring formation in Glucose Starting with the hemiacetal (closed ring) structure, the unique, newly created, asymmetric center has a special name: the anomeric carbon. In the structure of glucose given below, the anomeric carbon, which is created by forming the six member (pyranose) hemiacetal structure, is highlighted. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to that carbon are unique . This anomeric carbon is the target for the formation of a covalent bond between it and potentially any hydroxyl functional group on any other monosacchardie. The covalent bond formed between the anomeric carbon and a hydroxyl group is called a glycosidic bond and the final structure is referred to as an acetal. The equation for the formation of the glycosidic bond is given below. In this reaction, a molecule of water is lost during the combining of the two glucose molecules to form the glycosidic bond. This type of reaction is referred to as a condensation reaction. The reverse of this reaction, requiring the addition of a water molecule, is referred to as a hydrolysis reaction. These combined forward and reverse reactions (condensation and hydrolysis) form the basis for the creation of most of the covalent assemblies in biological systems. The hydroxyl groups from the 1 carbon and 4 carbon react to produce an 1,4-glycosidic bond and water. While all linkages between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and every hydroxyl of a second carbohydrate are possible, it is important to understand, that in biological systems, very little is left to chance, and in fact, every reaction that takes place in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme. Just as we have stated that bioselectivity dictates that D carbohydrates are used by biological systems, the formation of glycosidic bonds is catalyzed by specific enzymes that direct the formation of specific glycosidic bonds between the anomeric carbon of one defined carbohydrate and a specific hydroxyl function of a defined second carbohydrate. Each resulting disaccharide is a different structure. This is another example of bioselectivity. It should also be noted that while the transformation from the alpha to the beta form of an individual carbohydrate at the anomeric carbon is freely reversible and dictated by equilibrium, that freedom of conversion is lost once the anomeric carbon is involved in a glycosidic bond. Furthermore, the condensation/hydrolysis reaction is generally written as an equilibrium; however, the glycosidic (acetal) linkage is very stable and does not spontaneously break (hydrolyze) without the input of energy and the use of a specific enzyme. The stability of the glycosidic bond contributes to the effective use of the polysaccharides in maintaining structure. While the monosaccharides can serve directly as sources of energy, as will be seen elsewhere in the course, they are also the building blocks for many molecules that are used for structure, energy storage and signaling. Here we will explore the process by which simple carbohydrates are linked together using a condensation reaction. Time will be spent on understanding this reaction since it is the same reaction that is used to link amino acids together to make proteins and fatty acids to glycerol to made the components of biological membranes. As described previously the aldehyde form of aldoses and ketone form of ketoses spontaneously form five and six member ring structures called furanoses and pyranoses respectively. This ring closure was an example of an alcohol functional group reacting with the carbon of the carbonyl functional group in either the aldehyde (aldose) or ketone (ketose) group. This is illustrated below. Notice that while atoms are moving from place to place on the structure, there is no net gain or loss of atoms in the closing of the ring to form what is referred to as a hemiacetal. Furthermore, this ring closure is freely reversible, which allows the alpha form of the ring to be in equilibrium with the beta form. Ring formation in Glucose Starting with the hemiacetal (closed ring) structure, the unique, newly created, asymmetric center has a special name: the anomeric carbon. In the structure of glucose given below, the anomeric carbon, which is created by forming the six member (pyranose) hemiacetal structure, is highlighted. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to that carbon are unique . This anomeric carbon is the target for the formation of a covalent bond between it and potentially any hydroxyl functional group on any other monosacchardie. The covalent bond formed between the anomeric carbon and a hydroxyl group is called a glycosidic bond and the final structure is referred to as an acetal. The equation for the formation of the glycosidic bond is given below. In this reaction, a molecule of water is lost during the combining of the two glucose molecules to form the glycosidic bond. This type of reaction is referred to as a condensation reaction. The reverse of this reaction, requiring the addition of a water molecule, is referred to as a hydrolysis reaction. These combined forward and reverse reactions (condensation and hydrolysis) form the basis for the creation of most of the covalent assemblies in biological systems. The hydroxyl groups from the 1 carbon and 4 carbon react to produce an 1,4-glycosidic bond and water. While all linkages between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and every hydroxyl of a second carbohydrate are possible, it is important to understand, that in biological systems, very little is left to chance, and in fact, every reaction that takes place in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme. Just as we have stated that bioselectivity dictates that D carbohydrates are used by biological systems, the formation of glycosidic bonds is catalyzed by specific enzymes that direct the formation of specific glycosidic bonds between the anomeric carbon of one defined carbohydrate and a specific hydroxyl function of a defined second carbohydrate. Each resulting disaccharide is a different structure. This is another example of bioselectivity. It should also be noted that while the transformation from the alpha to the beta form of an individual carbohydrate at the anomeric carbon is freely reversible and dictated by equilibrium, that freedom of conversion is lost once the anomeric carbon is involved in a glycosidic bond. Furthermore, the condensation/hydrolysis reaction is generally written as an equilibrium; however, the glycosidic (acetal) linkage is very stable and does not spontaneously break (hydrolyze) without the input of energy and the use of a specific enzyme. The stability of the glycosidic bond contributes to the effective use of the polysaccharides in maintaining structure.   Simple Carbohydrates: Monosaccharides Upon completing this exploration of monosaccharides, students will be able to: Identify the molecules: glyceraldehyde, dihydroxyacetone, ribose, glucose, galactose and fructose. Distinguish aldose (aldehydes) from ketoses (ketones). Recognize alpha and beta orientation of hydroxyl on anomeric carbon. Describe the anomeric carbons of the hemiacetal form of the carbohydrates. Identify enantiomers of all carbohydrates as D. Identify asymmetric (chiral) centers. Characterize the functional groups in carbohydrates. Monosaccharides The simplest of the carbohydrates fall into two categories or structures that differ only in the arrangement of the atoms as seen below. In fact, in biological systems it is quite easy to convert between the two forms using catalysts. The unique functional group associated with that category defines each of the categories. In the case of the structure on the left, the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. This category of carbohydrates is, thus, referred to as aldoses. In contrast, the structure on the right has its carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) and this carbonyl is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus, making this carbonyl a ketone. Carbohydrates containing this ketone group are referred to as ketoses. Aldoses A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. Glyceraldehyde was chosen as the first carbohydrate to study because it provides another example of the bioselectivity of biological systems. In this case the selectivity is based on structural discrimination and will apply to all of the carbohydrates. Examine the glyceraldehyde structure given above and determine which of the carbons has a unique composition of four bonding partners. The number 1 carbon has three bonding partners: an oxygen that is double bonded to the carbon, a hydrogen, and the remainder of the structure. The number 2 carbon has an aldehyde, a hydrogen, a hydroxyl group and the rest of the molecule attached, while the number three carbon has a hydroxyl, two hydrogens and the upper portion of the molecule attached. The number 2 carbon isthe only carbon that has its four bonds involved with four different groups and, thus, is a unique carbon identified as a chiral or asymmetric center. Based on the fact that this chiral carbon has tetrahedral bonding structure, it can form structural enantiomers. You should convince yourself that it is not possible to superimpose the bottom two structures. They are in fact different structures. For glyceraldehyde, where A is an aldehyde, B is a hydrogen and X is the hydroxymethyl (CH2OH) group, the structure on the left would be referred to as D-glyceraldehyde and the structure on the right would be referred to as L-glyceraldehyde based on the orientation of the hydroxyl functional group. Biological systems are selective and while it is possible to synthesize both of the glyceraldehyde enantiomers in the chemistry lab, a cell primarily produces and uses the D form of glyceraldehyde. This is dictated by the way in which molecules are selected and used in a cell. Every reaction in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme and these enzyme catalysts have the ability to discriminate between different structures. In this case the enzymes can discriminate between D and L carbohydrates. Thus as a general rule, all carbohydrates in biological systems are D. Just as the cell can recognize the difference between D and L, the expectation for this course is that you are able to recognize the structures of the carbohydrate but it will not be necessary to know how to draw the structures. Aldoses Now we will build larger aldoses by adding one carbon at a time to the structure. In doing this, two components will remain unchanged, the aldehyde group will always be the number one carbon and the bottom or last two carbons will always represent the D form of the carbohydrate (monosaccharide). Add another carbon to the structure given above. How many possible structures result from adding another carbon to this carbohydrate? What must remain constant in the representation of these structures? One of these structures is very important to the biological system: D-ribose. This aldose makes up the backbone structure of RNA and a derivative of it, 2-deoxyribose, makes up the backbone of DNA. Similarly, an additional carbon can be added to the pentoses to form the possible hexoses (six carbon monosaccharides). An expansive tree on structures can be built starting with the simplest aldose. While all of these structures are possible starting with D-glyceraldehyde, the biological system only utilizes a few of these structures. Of the hexoses, the predominant compound is D-glucose, one of the most prevalent sugars in biology. The linear structure of glucose is shown below, along with ribose. It is useful to provide shorthand notations and alternative ways of representing the carbohydrates. Below are equivalent alternative representations of the glucose and ribose. The form on the right is typically found in books and manuscripts. It should always be remembered that while the structure on the right would appear to represent carbon as having planar bonding, in fact each of the carbons has a tetrahedral bonding structure. Cyclization of Aldoses The five (ribose) and six (glucose) membered aldoses have been depicted in their linear form. However, these compounds will spontaneously form 5 member or 6 member ring structures if possible. These are more stable forms of the compounds. Now let’s represent the ribose structure as it is actually found in solution. As previously mentioned, compounds will spontaneously form 5 or 6 member rings if possible. For aldoses this is possible because of the reactive character of the aldehyde group. For ribose this means that if the oxygen on the number 4 carbon forms a bond with the number one aldehyde carbon and the hydrogen on the hydroxyl shifts to the carbonyl oxygen on the aldehyde the result is a five-member ring referred to as a furanose. Examination of the result of this transformation, in which the total number of carbons, hydrogens and oxygens between the two structures has not changed, shows that the number one carbon has now become a new asymmetric (chiral) center where it wasn’t before the ring closure. This new chiral center is called the anomeric carbon. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to the anomeric carbon are unique, making it a chiral center. The drawing below shows not only the possible structures resulting from the ring closure but also shows the more traditional representation of these structures in their ring configuration. In all of these cases the structure is still ribose. The two new structures created by the ring closure create two additional conformations of the number one carbon: alpha with the hydroxyl on the right of the stick structure or pointing down in the ring representation, and beta with the hydroxyl on the left of the stick structure and pointing up in the ring structure. It should also be noted that as represented in the drawing these structures are all in equilibrium with each other and the alpha structure can be converted to the beta structure and visa versa as long as each structure can be converted to the free aldehyde structure. The central image shows how the two furanose forms of ribose are generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. The hexoses are capable of forming a six member pyranose ring by the same mechanism. Ring formation in glucose is shown in the diagram below. As with ribose, a new chiral center is formed, giving two possible forms of glucose, alpha and beta. The central image shows how the two pyranose forms of glucose that can be generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. Epimers: Monosaccharides that differ by chirality at one position (besides the anomeric carbon) are called epimers. For example, glucose and galactose are epimers of each other. Galactose is one of the monosaccharides that make up lactose, or milk sugar. There are enzyme catalysts capable of inter-converting galactose to glucose by inverting the chiral center. Thus the galactose that is released from lactose can be concerted to glucose and used for energy. Instructions: Use the 3D representations of glucose and galactose to determine which carbon differs in chirality between the two aldoses. Ketoses Ketoses A ketose is a carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon that is flanked by carbons on both sides. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. In the same way that the larger aldoses were generated, single carbons can be added to the structure of the dihydroxyacetone and an expansive tree of structures result. If we examine the result of adding a single carbon, the result is the acquisition of an new asymmetric center. In the case of a four carbon ketose, which is formed by the addition of a C(H2O) group below the ketone group in dihydroxyacetone phosphate, the new chiral center can be either D or L. In general, only the D structures of the ketoses are used by biological systems due to bioselectivity. While it is clear that many ketose structures are possible, only a few are used in biological systems and the focus for this course will be on the hexose D-fructose. The fructose structure has the ketone group as at the number 2 carbon and the D designation based on the chirality at carbon number 5. Applying the principle that compounds will spontaneously form stable ring structures, and using a mechanism similar to that employed for the aldoses, fructose will spontaneously form a five-member ring structure. These structures are depicted below and are in equilibrium with each other through the free ketone structure. The simplest of the carbohydrates fall into two categories or structures that differ only in the arrangement of the atoms as seen below. In fact, in biological systems it is quite easy to convert between the two forms using catalysts. The unique functional group associated with that category defines each of the categories. In the case of the structure on the left, the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. This category of carbohydrates is, thus, referred to as aldoses. In contrast, the structure on the right has its carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) and this carbonyl is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus, making this carbonyl a ketone. Carbohydrates containing this ketone group are referred to as ketoses. Aldoses A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. Glyceraldehyde was chosen as the first carbohydrate to study because it provides another example of the bioselectivity of biological systems. In this case the selectivity is based on structural discrimination and will apply to all of the carbohydrates. Examine the glyceraldehyde structure given above and determine which of the carbons has a unique composition of four bonding partners. The number 1 carbon has three bonding partners: an oxygen that is double bonded to the carbon, a hydrogen, and the remainder of the structure. The number 2 carbon has an aldehyde, a hydrogen, a hydroxyl group and the rest of the molecule attached, while the number three carbon has a hydroxyl, two hydrogens and the upper portion of the molecule attached. The number 2 carbon isthe only carbon that has its four bonds involved with four different groups and, thus, is a unique carbon identified as a chiral or asymmetric center. Based on the fact that this chiral carbon has tetrahedral bonding structure, it can form structural enantiomers. You should convince yourself that it is not possible to superimpose the bottom two structures. They are in fact different structures. For glyceraldehyde, where A is an aldehyde, B is a hydrogen and X is the hydroxymethyl (CH2OH) group, the structure on the left would be referred to as D-glyceraldehyde and the structure on the right would be referred to as L-glyceraldehyde based on the orientation of the hydroxyl functional group. Biological systems are selective and while it is possible to synthesize both of the glyceraldehyde enantiomers in the chemistry lab, a cell primarily produces and uses the D form of glyceraldehyde. This is dictated by the way in which molecules are selected and used in a cell. Every reaction in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme and these enzyme catalysts have the ability to discriminate between different structures. In this case the enzymes can discriminate between D and L carbohydrates. Thus as a general rule, all carbohydrates in biological systems are D. Just as the cell can recognize the difference between D and L, the expectation for this course is that you are able to recognize the structures of the carbohydrate but it will not be necessary to know how to draw the structures. Now we will build larger aldoses by adding one carbon at a time to the structure. In doing this, two components will remain unchanged, the aldehyde group will always be the number one carbon and the bottom or last two carbons will always represent the D form of the carbohydrate (monosaccharide). Add another carbon to the structure given above. How many possible structures result from adding another carbon to this carbohydrate? What must remain constant in the representation of these structures? One of these structures is very important to the biological system: D-ribose. This aldose makes up the backbone structure of RNA and a derivative of it, 2-deoxyribose, makes up the backbone of DNA. Similarly, an additional carbon can be added to the pentoses to form the possible hexoses (six carbon monosaccharides). An expansive tree on structures can be built starting with the simplest aldose. While all of these structures are possible starting with D-glyceraldehyde, the biological system only utilizes a few of these structures. Of the hexoses, the predominant compound is D-glucose, one of the most prevalent sugars in biology. The linear structure of glucose is shown below, along with ribose. It is useful to provide shorthand notations and alternative ways of representing the carbohydrates. Below are equivalent alternative representations of the glucose and ribose. The form on the right is typically found in books and manuscripts. It should always be remembered that while the structure on the right would appear to represent carbon as having planar bonding, in fact each of the carbons has a tetrahedral bonding structure. The five (ribose) and six (glucose) membered aldoses have been depicted in their linear form. However, these compounds will spontaneously form 5 member or 6 member ring structures if possible. These are more stable forms of the compounds. Now let’s represent the ribose structure as it is actually found in solution. As previously mentioned, compounds will spontaneously form 5 or 6 member rings if possible. For aldoses this is possible because of the reactive character of the aldehyde group. For ribose this means that if the oxygen on the number 4 carbon forms a bond with the number one aldehyde carbon and the hydrogen on the hydroxyl shifts to the carbonyl oxygen on the aldehyde the result is a five-member ring referred to as a furanose. Examination of the result of this transformation, in which the total number of carbons, hydrogens and oxygens between the two structures has not changed, shows that the number one carbon has now become a new asymmetric (chiral) center where it wasn’t before the ring closure. This new chiral center is called the anomeric carbon. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to the anomeric carbon are unique, making it a chiral center. The drawing below shows not only the possible structures resulting from the ring closure but also shows the more traditional representation of these structures in their ring configuration. In all of these cases the structure is still ribose. The two new structures created by the ring closure create two additional conformations of the number one carbon: alpha with the hydroxyl on the right of the stick structure or pointing down in the ring representation, and beta with the hydroxyl on the left of the stick structure and pointing up in the ring structure. It should also be noted that as represented in the drawing these structures are all in equilibrium with each other and the alpha structure can be converted to the beta structure and visa versa as long as each structure can be converted to the free aldehyde structure. The central image shows how the two furanose forms of ribose are generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. The hexoses are capable of forming a six member pyranose ring by the same mechanism. Ring formation in glucose is shown in the diagram below. As with ribose, a new chiral center is formed, giving two possible forms of glucose, alpha and beta. The central image shows how the two pyranose forms of glucose that can be generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. Epimers: Monosaccharides that differ by chirality at one position (besides the anomeric carbon) are called epimers. For example, glucose and galactose are epimers of each other. Galactose is one of the monosaccharides that make up lactose, or milk sugar. There are enzyme catalysts capable of inter-converting galactose to glucose by inverting the chiral center. Thus the galactose that is released from lactose can be concerted to glucose and used for energy. Instructions: Use the 3D representations of glucose and galactose to determine which carbon differs in chirality between the two aldoses. Ketoses A ketose is a carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon that is flanked by carbons on both sides. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. In the same way that the larger aldoses were generated, single carbons can be added to the structure of the dihydroxyacetone and an expansive tree of structures result. If we examine the result of adding a single carbon, the result is the acquisition of an new asymmetric center. In the case of a four carbon ketose, which is formed by the addition of a C(H2O) group below the ketone group in dihydroxyacetone phosphate, the new chiral center can be either D or L. In general, only the D structures of the ketoses are used by biological systems due to bioselectivity. While it is clear that many ketose structures are possible, only a few are used in biological systems and the focus for this course will be on the hexose D-fructose. The fructose structure has the ketone group as at the number 2 carbon and the D designation based on the chirality at carbon number 5. Applying the principle that compounds will spontaneously form stable ring structures, and using a mechanism similar to that employed for the aldoses, fructose will spontaneously form a five-member ring structure. These structures are depicted below and are in equilibrium with each other through the free ketone structure.   Di- and Polysaccharide After completing this segment to investigate carbohydrates further, students will be able to: Recognize and describe structure and function of sucrose, lactose, cellulose, glycogen, amylose, amylopectin, and starch. Distinguish characteristic structural differences among homopolysaccharides. Explain why carbohydrates are well suited for signaling and cell recognition functions. Distinguish and describe the differences between the plant cell wall and bacterial cell wall. Carbohydrates generally exist as di- and polysaccharides used in transport, energy storage, structure and signaling. While the glycosidic bond is always between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and the hydroxyl of another carbohydrate, the number of hydroxyls per monosaccharide and the different orientations of the hydroxyl on the anomeric carbon make the number of potential structures extremely large. Here we will focus on some of the biologically important di- and polysaccharides with an emphasis on the ability to identify and describe the structures not the ability to draw the structures. Disaccharides Two of the most common disaccharides are lactose, or milk sugar, and sucrose, or common table sugar. Each is a form of carbohydrate storage and represents an example of a hetero-disaccharide, i.e. disaccharide formed from two different monosaccharides. Lactose In the case of lactose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of galactose. The chemical structure is described as galactose-beta1,4-glucose; the anomeric carbon of galactose is in the beta conformation and is connected to carbon 4 on glucose. Instructions: The right hand Jmol shows the 3D structure, with one of the monosaccharides highlighted. When answering the questions below the Jmol, keep in mind that the orientation of the two rings in the 3D structure may differ from the 2D line drawing on the left. In the case of sucrose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of fructose. The structure is described as glucose-alpha,beta 1,2-fructose. In this structure it is instructive to identify the anomeric carbon on the glucose and the fructose molecules since they are both involved in the formation of the glycosidic bond. A third disaccharide that provides a transition to the common polysaccharides is maltose, a homo-disaccharide. The structure is a homo-dimer made up of two molecules of glucose linked by an alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond. Maltose is commonly found as a dietary supplement and naturally is produced as an intermediate breakdown product of starch. As such it also represents the basic repeating unit of the polysaccharides starch and glycogen. Polysaccharides Homopolysaccharides: Three major homopolymers found in nature are starch, glycogen and cellulose. All three are made of the same building block (subunit or monomer) – glucose, but they are different in structure and function. Starch: The structure of starch has two components: amylose and amylopectin. Amylose is a linear polymer of glucose subunits linked end-to-end by alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bonds. Amylopectin has the same backbone polymer structure as amylose, but also contains branches from the backbone linked by alpha -1,6 glycosidic bonds every 20-30 glucose subunits along the amylose backbone. This gives rise to a highly branched structure used in the storage of glucose in plants. Glycogen is another example of a homo-polysaccharide of glucose with a repeating structural unit of glucose. For glycogen, there is no linear form, but there is a highly branched form that resembles amylopectin with branch points separated by only 8-10 glucose subunits along the backbone. This creates a much denser, more highly packed structure used for storage of glucose in mammalian cells. Cellulose plays a structural role as the key component of a plant cell wall. Cellulose is an unbranched polymer, analogous to amylose; however, the linkages between the glucose subunits are beta-1,4, rather than alpha-1,4. This difference in configuration of glycosidic bond leads to differences in structure and in function. Beta-1,4 linkage results in the linear and extended shape of the polymer structure, which allows the strands of cellulose to align and form a hydrogen-bonding network between the hydroxyls on the individual glucose subunits. This hydrogen bonding adds to the rigidity of cellulose cell wall. Another demonstration of bioselectivity is at play in the discrimination between cellulose and amylose by our digestive system. The structural difference between the beta-1,4 link in cellulose and the alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond in amylose is sufficient to require different enzymes to break (hydrolyze) the bonds separating the glucose subunits in each structure. The difference is significant because it prevents humans from being able to use cellulose as a glucose source, while we are able to use glycogen and starch. Humans do not posses the enzyme that hydrolyzes the beta-1,4 link in cellulose. Cellulose Hetero-Polysaccharides: An enormous set of possibilities for structures exist if one considers that variations can occur between the orientation of the glycosidic bond (alpha vs. beta), the sites to which the bond can be made on an adjacent monosaccharide, the number of different carbohydrates involved (glucose, galactose, ribose, etc), and the order in which they appear. Such variation, even when a few monosaccharides are included, can give rise to an enormous number of uniquely recognizable structures. In some cases these varied structures can be attached to proteins and lipids to be used as identification/signaling devices on the surface of cells. Each cell type and each species of microorganism can display a unique identification on its surface to be used in cell recognition and to identify partners in cell-cell interactions. Many other hetero-polysaccharides exist to carryout a variety of functions within an organism. A unique hetero-polysaccharide produced by bacteria is the peptido-glycan that forms the basic structure of the bacterial cell wall. In this case there is a linear hetero-polysaccharide that acts much like the linear strands of cellulose in the plant cell wall. However, as implied by the name, the peptido-glycan is a covalent complex between a polysaccharide (glycan) and a peptide (a fragment of a protein). In the bacterial peptido-glycan, the linear hetero-polysaccharide chains are linked together by covalent bonds using a peptide as the linker. As seen in the illustration below, this means that the bacterial cell wall is fully connected by covalent bonds while the plant cell wall is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between hydroxyl groups on parallel strands. Graded Quiz The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once. The following quiz will be graded and recorded in the grade book. You may take this quiz only once.   Di- and Polysaccharide After completing this segment to investigate carbohydrates further, students will be able to: Recognize and describe structure and function of sucrose, lactose, cellulose, glycogen, amylose, amylopectin, and starch. Distinguish characteristic structural differences among homopolysaccharides. Explain why carbohydrates are well suited for signaling and cell recognition functions. Distinguish and describe the differences between the plant cell wall and bacterial cell wall. Carbohydrates generally exist as di- and polysaccharides used in transport, energy storage, structure and signaling. While the glycosidic bond is always between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and the hydroxyl of another carbohydrate, the number of hydroxyls per monosaccharide and the different orientations of the hydroxyl on the anomeric carbon make the number of potential structures extremely large. Here we will focus on some of the biologically important di- and polysaccharides with an emphasis on the ability to identify and describe the structures not the ability to draw the structures. Disaccharides Two of the most common disaccharides are lactose, or milk sugar, and sucrose, or common table sugar. Each is a form of carbohydrate storage and represents an example of a hetero-disaccharide, i.e. disaccharide formed from two different monosaccharides. Lactose In the case of lactose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of galactose. The chemical structure is described as galactose-beta1,4-glucose; the anomeric carbon of galactose is in the beta conformation and is connected to carbon 4 on glucose. Instructions: The right hand Jmol shows the 3D structure, with one of the monosaccharides highlighted. When answering the questions below the Jmol, keep in mind that the orientation of the two rings in the 3D structure may differ from the 2D line drawing on the left. In the case of sucrose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of fructose. The structure is described as glucose-alpha,beta 1,2-fructose. In this structure it is instructive to identify the anomeric carbon on the glucose and the fructose molecules since they are both involved in the formation of the glycosidic bond. A third disaccharide that provides a transition to the common polysaccharides is maltose, a homo-disaccharide. The structure is a homo-dimer made up of two molecules of glucose linked by an alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond. Maltose is commonly found as a dietary supplement and naturally is produced as an intermediate breakdown product of starch. As such it also represents the basic repeating unit of the polysaccharides starch and glycogen. Polysaccharides Homopolysaccharides: Three major homopolymers found in nature are starch, glycogen and cellulose. All three are made of the same building block (subunit or monomer) – glucose, but they are different in structure and function. Starch: The structure of starch has two components: amylose and amylopectin. Amylose is a linear polymer of glucose subunits linked end-to-end by alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bonds. Amylopectin has the same backbone polymer structure as amylose, but also contains branches from the backbone linked by alpha -1,6 glycosidic bonds every 20-30 glucose subunits along the amylose backbone. This gives rise to a highly branched structure used in the storage of glucose in plants. Glycogen is another example of a homo-polysaccharide of glucose with a repeating structural unit of glucose. For glycogen, there is no linear form, but there is a highly branched form that resembles amylopectin with branch points separated by only 8-10 glucose subunits along the backbone. This creates a much denser, more highly packed structure used for storage of glucose in mammalian cells. Cellulose plays a structural role as the key component of a plant cell wall. Cellulose is an unbranched polymer, analogous to amylose; however, the linkages between the glucose subunits are beta-1,4, rather than alpha-1,4. This difference in configuration of glycosidic bond leads to differences in structure and in function. Beta-1,4 linkage results in the linear and extended shape of the polymer structure, which allows the strands of cellulose to align and form a hydrogen-bonding network between the hydroxyls on the individual glucose subunits. This hydrogen bonding adds to the rigidity of cellulose cell wall. Another demonstration of bioselectivity is at play in the discrimination between cellulose and amylose by our digestive system. The structural difference between the beta-1,4 link in cellulose and the alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond in amylose is sufficient to require different enzymes to break (hydrolyze) the bonds separating the glucose subunits in each structure. The difference is significant because it prevents humans from being able to use cellulose as a glucose source, while we are able to use glycogen and starch. Humans do not posses the enzyme that hydrolyzes the beta-1,4 link in cellulose. Cellulose Hetero-Polysaccharides: An enormous set of possibilities for structures exist if one considers that variations can occur between the orientation of the glycosidic bond (alpha vs. beta), the sites to which the bond can be made on an adjacent monosaccharide, the number of different carbohydrates involved (glucose, galactose, ribose, etc), and the order in which they appear. Such variation, even when a few monosaccharides are included, can give rise to an enormous number of uniquely recognizable structures. In some cases these varied structures can be attached to proteins and lipids to be used as identification/signaling devices on the surface of cells. Each cell type and each species of microorganism can display a unique identification on its surface to be used in cell recognition and to identify partners in cell-cell interactions. Many other hetero-polysaccharides exist to carryout a variety of functions within an organism. A unique hetero-polysaccharide produced by bacteria is the peptido-glycan that forms the basic structure of the bacterial cell wall. In this case there is a linear hetero-polysaccharide that acts much like the linear strands of cellulose in the plant cell wall. However, as implied by the name, the peptido-glycan is a covalent complex between a polysaccharide (glycan) and a peptide (a fragment of a protein). In the bacterial peptido-glycan, the linear hetero-polysaccharide chains are linked together by covalent bonds using a peptide as the linker. As seen in the illustration below, this means that the bacterial cell wall is fully connected by covalent bonds while the plant cell wall is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between hydroxyl groups on parallel strands.   Carbohydrates The trick for the cell is to convert the 673 Kcal of energy to a useful form so that it can do work for us. That is a topic for later in the course. As second function for the carbohydrates is that of structure. In this case structure is not only what a polymer of the carbohydrates has but it is also what that structure contributes to the cell. For example, cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose that interacts with other cellulose polymers to form fibers that interact to form the basic structure of the cell wall of plants. Insert picture of cellulose fibers Another example is the peptidoglycan that makes up the cell wall structure of a bacterium. Peptido refers to a peptide, which is a fragment of a protein or a short polymer of amino acids, and glycan refers to a polysaccharide, a polymer of carbohydrates. In this case the polymer of carbohydrates includes building blocks other than glucose but the end result is the formation of a matrix. In both cases the resulting fibers and matrices provide a scaffolding that gives rigidity (structure) and protection to the organisms with which they are associated.   Primary Structure of Proteins After completing this examination of protein structures, students will be able to: Define and describe the primary structure of a protein. Explain how primary structure defines the final structure of a protein. Protein sequence A protein is composed of amino acids attached in a linear order. This basic level of protein structure is called it's primary structure and derives from the formation of peptide bonds between the individual amino acids. The order of the amino acids is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. Amino acid sequence of Human Estrogen Receptor Amino acids are indicated using the single letter code. For example, the amino acid glycine is abbreviated with the letter G. Higher order structure is determined by the Primary Structure Proteins do not exist as linear threads in the cells but rather as spontaneously folded higher order structures. The higher order structure is determined by the amino acids in the primary structure. The function of a protein is determined by its higher order structure. Proteins take on structure in stages defined by the interactions of amino acids with each other in the primary sequence. The higher order stages of secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure of the estrogen receptor are shown in the movie below. Although the exact structure of the protein was determined using biophysical methods employing sophisticated instruments and calculations, the ability to predict the three dimensional structure (tertiary structure) of a protein de novo is not yet possible. It is possible to make excellent predictions of secondary structure from primary structure and the use of measured constraints on structure based on the structure of the peptide bond and characteristics of individual amino acids is making it possible to approach predictive methods. The stages or levels of protein structure are displayed here: Primary Structure: The amino acid sequence of the protein, with no regard for the conformation of the amino acids. Secondary Structure: short range interactions involving only mainchain atoms resulting in -helices and -sheets Tertiary Structure: long range interactions resulting in the 3-D Folding of a single polypeptide chain. Quaternary Structure: The interaction of two or more peptide chains to make a functional protein. The oxygen transport protein hemoglobin shows this level of structure. The functional protein is composed of four chains. Quaternary Structure of Hemoglobin The oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin, is shown on the left. The heme groups, which are colored purple, are responsible for binding the oxygen. The protein component of hemoglobin is colored gray. Hemoglobin looks complicated, but we can understand its structure using a hierarchical description of the structure. Primary Structure script('reset;select all;backbone off;cartoon off;wireframe off;font echo 12;set echo middle left;echo Chain A:|Val-Leu-Ser-Pro-Ala-Asp-...;color echo black;') is the sequence of amino acids. Hemoglobin has four separate polypeptide chains, the first few amino acids of the first chain (chain A) will appear after clicking the button. Secondary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;delay 0.25;select *:B and 4-18;define secondary selected;select all;color backbone cpk;set windowCentered off;center 11:B.CA;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 200;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;labels off;select secondary;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent;delay 0.2;select (not secondary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.15;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.1;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.1;backbone 25;color backbone [255,255,255];delay 0.1;backbone off;moveto 1 -200 966 -164 109 250;select all')describes the local structure of just the main chain atoms. Each subunit of hemoglobin contains a number of alpha-helical secondary structural elements. Clicking on the button will show you one of these. Tertiary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select *:B;define tertiary selected;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;labels off;select tertiary;backbone 150;color group;delay 0.5;select (not tertiary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.2;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.2;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.2;backbone 25;delay 0.1;select all;backbone off;select tertiary;backbone 150;delay 1.0;set windowCentered off;center *:B;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 150;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of both the mainchain and sidechain atoms of one poly-peptide chain. Clicking on the button will show you the tertiary structure of one of the sub-units of hemoglobin. Of course, the tertiary structure is built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can highlight with a pink ribbon by clicking herescript('set echo off;select *:B;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent') Quaternary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of all of the different poly-peptide chains that comprise the functional molecule. Clicking on the button will show you the complete quaternary structure of hemoglobin. You can click herescript('select all;color backbone chain') to color each of the separate chains in hemoglobin. Of course, the quaternary structure is also built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can view by clicking herescript('select all;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent') A protein is composed of amino acids attached in a linear order. This basic level of protein structure is called it's primary structure and derives from the formation of peptide bonds between the individual amino acids. The order of the amino acids is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. Amino acid sequence of Human Estrogen Receptor Amino acids are indicated using the single letter code. For example, the amino acid glycine is abbreviated with the letter G. Proteins do not exist as linear threads in the cells but rather as spontaneously folded higher order structures. The higher order structure is determined by the amino acids in the primary structure. The function of a protein is determined by its higher order structure. Proteins take on structure in stages defined by the interactions of amino acids with each other in the primary sequence. The higher order stages of secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure of the estrogen receptor are shown in the movie below. Although the exact structure of the protein was determined using biophysical methods employing sophisticated instruments and calculations, the ability to predict the three dimensional structure (tertiary structure) of a protein de novo is not yet possible. It is possible to make excellent predictions of secondary structure from primary structure and the use of measured constraints on structure based on the structure of the peptide bond and characteristics of individual amino acids is making it possible to approach predictive methods. The stages or levels of protein structure are displayed here: Primary Structure: The amino acid sequence of the protein, with no regard for the conformation of the amino acids. Secondary Structure: short range interactions involving only mainchain atoms resulting in -helices and -sheets Tertiary Structure: long range interactions resulting in the 3-D Folding of a single polypeptide chain. Quaternary Structure: The interaction of two or more peptide chains to make a functional protein. The oxygen transport protein hemoglobin shows this level of structure. The functional protein is composed of four chains. Quaternary Structure of Hemoglobin The oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin, is shown on the left. The heme groups, which are colored purple, are responsible for binding the oxygen. The protein component of hemoglobin is colored gray. Hemoglobin looks complicated, but we can understand its structure using a hierarchical description of the structure. Primary Structure script('reset;select all;backbone off;cartoon off;wireframe off;font echo 12;set echo middle left;echo Chain A:|Val-Leu-Ser-Pro-Ala-Asp-...;color echo black;') is the sequence of amino acids. Hemoglobin has four separate polypeptide chains, the first few amino acids of the first chain (chain A) will appear after clicking the button. Secondary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;delay 0.25;select *:B and 4-18;define secondary selected;select all;color backbone cpk;set windowCentered off;center 11:B.CA;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 200;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;labels off;select secondary;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent;delay 0.2;select (not secondary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.15;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.1;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.1;backbone 25;color backbone [255,255,255];delay 0.1;backbone off;moveto 1 -200 966 -164 109 250;select all')describes the local structure of just the main chain atoms. Each subunit of hemoglobin contains a number of alpha-helical secondary structural elements. Clicking on the button will show you one of these. Tertiary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select *:B;define tertiary selected;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;labels off;select tertiary;backbone 150;color group;delay 0.5;select (not tertiary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.2;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.2;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.2;backbone 25;delay 0.1;select all;backbone off;select tertiary;backbone 150;delay 1.0;set windowCentered off;center *:B;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 150;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of both the mainchain and sidechain atoms of one poly-peptide chain. Clicking on the button will show you the tertiary structure of one of the sub-units of hemoglobin. Of course, the tertiary structure is built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can highlight with a pink ribbon by clicking herescript('set echo off;select *:B;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent') Quaternary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of all of the different poly-peptide chains that comprise the functional molecule. Clicking on the button will show you the complete quaternary structure of hemoglobin. You can click herescript('select all;color backbone chain') to color each of the separate chains in hemoglobin. Of course, the quaternary structure is also built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can view by clicking herescript('select all;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent')   Quaternary Structure of Proteins Upon completing this module, students will be able to: Describe what is necessary to form a quaternary structure. Give at least one example of a quaternary structure. Describe how a quaternary structure is dynamic. More than one peptide forms a functional protein There are many examples of proteins that require more than one peptide chain to be functional. In the case of the estrogen receptor two identical peptide chains come together to form the functional protein. This is called a homo dimer. Hemoglobin is composed of four peptide chains; two identical alpha chains and two identical beta chains. The individual peptides or sub-units of estrogen and hemoglobin are held together by all of the non-covalent bonding types: hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding and hydrophobic interactions . The interaction of the subunits in a quaternary complex represents another form of equilibrium. The individual polypeptide chains are made separately and must associate through specific complimentary interactions. Antibodies represent a different type of quaternary structure because the individual subunits are linked by disulfide bonds. The structure is a dimer of dimers and the basic unit is a large peptide (the heavy chain) bound to a smaller chain (light chain) by disulfide bonds. Since this dimer is a combination of two different peptides it is called a heterodimer. Two of these heterodimers are joined by disulfide bonds between the heavy chains to form the final tetrameric structure. Graded Quiz There are many examples of proteins that require more than one peptide chain to be functional. In the case of the estrogen receptor two identical peptide chains come together to form the functional protein. This is called a homo dimer. Hemoglobin is composed of four peptide chains; two identical alpha chains and two identical beta chains. The individual peptides or sub-units of estrogen and hemoglobin are held together by all of the non-covalent bonding types: hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding and hydrophobic interactions . The interaction of the subunits in a quaternary complex represents another form of equilibrium. The individual polypeptide chains are made separately and must associate through specific complimentary interactions. Antibodies represent a different type of quaternary structure because the individual subunits are linked by disulfide bonds. The structure is a dimer of dimers and the basic unit is a large peptide (the heavy chain) bound to a smaller chain (light chain) by disulfide bonds. Since this dimer is a combination of two different peptides it is called a heterodimer. Two of these heterodimers are joined by disulfide bonds between the heavy chains to form the final tetrameric structure.   Quaternary Structure of Proteins Upon completing this module, students will be able to: Describe what is necessary to form a quaternary structure. Give at least one example of a quaternary structure. Describe how a quaternary structure is dynamic. More than one peptide forms a functional protein There are many examples of proteins that require more than one peptide chain to be functional. In the case of the estrogen receptor two identical peptide chains come together to form the functional protein. This is called a homo dimer. Hemoglobin is composed of four peptide chains; two identical alpha chains and two identical beta chains. The individual peptides or sub-units of estrogen and hemoglobin are held together by all of the non-covalent bonding types: hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding and hydrophobic interactions . The interaction of the subunits in a quaternary complex represents another form of equilibrium. The individual polypeptide chains are made separately and must associate through specific complimentary interactions. Antibodies represent a different type of quaternary structure because the individual subunits are linked by disulfide bonds. The structure is a dimer of dimers and the basic unit is a large peptide (the heavy chain) bound to a smaller chain (light chain) by disulfide bonds. Since this dimer is a combination of two different peptides it is called a heterodimer. Two of these heterodimers are joined by disulfide bonds between the heavy chains to form the final tetrameric structure. There are many examples of proteins that require more than one peptide chain to be functional. In the case of the estrogen receptor two identical peptide chains come together to form the functional protein. This is called a homo dimer. Hemoglobin is composed of four peptide chains; two identical alpha chains and two identical beta chains. The individual peptides or sub-units of estrogen and hemoglobin are held together by all of the non-covalent bonding types: hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding and hydrophobic interactions . The interaction of the subunits in a quaternary complex represents another form of equilibrium. The individual polypeptide chains are made separately and must associate through specific complimentary interactions. Antibodies represent a different type of quaternary structure because the individual subunits are linked by disulfide bonds. The structure is a dimer of dimers and the basic unit is a large peptide (the heavy chain) bound to a smaller chain (light chain) by disulfide bonds. Since this dimer is a combination of two different peptides it is called a heterodimer. Two of these heterodimers are joined by disulfide bonds between the heavy chains to form the final tetrameric structure.   Secondary Structure of Proteins Secondary Structure After investigating the secondary structure of protein, students wiil be able to: Define the structural properties of a peptide bond that will put constraints on the folding of a protein. Describe specific structural restrictions that characterize secondary structure. Identify and draw hydrogen bonding between peptide bonds. Describe specific examples of secondary structure in detail. Constraints Determining Secondary Structure Peptide Bond is Planar When two amino acids are joined a peptide bond is formed through a condensation reaction. The carbonyl electrons are partially shared by the carbon nitrogen peptide bond giving the carbonyl carbon/amide nitrogen bond a slight double bond character. Because of this partial double bond character, rotation around the C-N peptide bond is prevented and thus the peptide bond is planar. This is the first and a major constraint placed on protein folding. The figure below depicts the six atoms that are included in the planar peptide bond: the carbonyl carbon, the carbonyl oxygen, the alpha carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon, the amide nitrogen (of the second amino acid), the hydrogen attached to the amide nitrogen, and the alpha carbon of the second amino acid. Two possible orientations of the planer peptide bond are possible, the trans from and the cis form. Although both are planer, the trans form is more stable and this form is shown in the diagram below. Since there is no rotation around the C-N bond of the peptide bond, the only possible freedom of rotation in an amino acid residue is the carbonyl carbon-alpha carbon single bond, which is denoted as psi(), and the amide nitrogen-alpha carbon single bond, which is called phi(). If one knows all of the phi-psi angles of rotation for every amino acid residue in a protein, it is possible to define the secondary structure of that protein. It should be noted that not all phi-psi angles are possible due to steric interference, electronic repulsion by side chains of the same charge and other factors all of which represent constraints in the folding of a protein. Explaining and Watch this short video for a description of the and angles. Side Chain Constrains and Angles Secondary structure is generally defined by the interaction of amino acids adjacent to each other in the primary sequence. Elements of secondary structure include the -helix, the beta-sheet and the beta-turn. These structures involve short range interactions that involve hydrogen bonding between peptide bonds and do not involve the interactions of amino acid side chains. Alpha Helix One of the constrained pairs of - angles gives rise to the secondary structural element referred to as the -helix. The -helix is the prominent structure seen hemoglobin shown previously. Because of the regular nature of the structure, every - angle pair in an -helix is the same. -helical structure is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between the backbone carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In -helices there are 3.7 amino acids per turn and the carbonyl of the n-th amino acid hydrogen bonds to the amide hydrogen of the n+4 amino acid. The hydrogen bonds are parallel to the long axis of the helix and the side chains extend to the outside of the helical cylinder. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions on the alpha helix. Beta-Sheet The second predominant secondary structure element is the -sheet. When the and angles are close to 180 degrees the peptide chain is fully extended, the -strand conformation exists. A -sheet forms when several -strands run either parallel or anti-parallel to each other. The structures are stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the strands and the anti-parallel structure appears to be more stable due to maximization of the number of possible hydrogen bonds. The atoms participating in hydrogen bonding in a -sheet are the same as those for -helices: the carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In the case of a -sheet the hydrogen bonds are in the plane of the sheet and perpendicular to the peptide chain. The side chains project above and below the plane of the -sheet. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions about the beta-sheet. Proline Kinks the System Proline is unusual among the amino acids and is technically referred to as an imino acid. It is a cyclic molecule forming a five member ring that closes the linear hydrocarbon side chain with the -amino group. Because of this there is no rotation about the bond and therefore, proline terminates helix formation and places further constraints on the folding of the peptide chain. Lecture on Protein Structure View the following video describing protein structures. Peptide Bond is Planar When two amino acids are joined a peptide bond is formed through a condensation reaction. The carbonyl electrons are partially shared by the carbon nitrogen peptide bond giving the carbonyl carbon/amide nitrogen bond a slight double bond character. Because of this partial double bond character, rotation around the C-N peptide bond is prevented and thus the peptide bond is planar. This is the first and a major constraint placed on protein folding. The figure below depicts the six atoms that are included in the planar peptide bond: the carbonyl carbon, the carbonyl oxygen, the alpha carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon, the amide nitrogen (of the second amino acid), the hydrogen attached to the amide nitrogen, and the alpha carbon of the second amino acid. Two possible orientations of the planer peptide bond are possible, the trans from and the cis form. Although both are planer, the trans form is more stable and this form is shown in the diagram below. Since there is no rotation around the C-N bond of the peptide bond, the only possible freedom of rotation in an amino acid residue is the carbonyl carbon-alpha carbon single bond, which is denoted as psi(), and the amide nitrogen-alpha carbon single bond, which is called phi(). If one knows all of the phi-psi angles of rotation for every amino acid residue in a protein, it is possible to define the secondary structure of that protein. It should be noted that not all phi-psi angles are possible due to steric interference, electronic repulsion by side chains of the same charge and other factors all of which represent constraints in the folding of a protein. Explaining and Watch this short video for a description of the and angles. Side Chain Constrains and Angles Secondary structure is generally defined by the interaction of amino acids adjacent to each other in the primary sequence. Elements of secondary structure include the -helix, the beta-sheet and the beta-turn. These structures involve short range interactions that involve hydrogen bonding between peptide bonds and do not involve the interactions of amino acid side chains. Alpha Helix One of the constrained pairs of - angles gives rise to the secondary structural element referred to as the -helix. The -helix is the prominent structure seen hemoglobin shown previously. Because of the regular nature of the structure, every - angle pair in an -helix is the same. -helical structure is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between the backbone carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In -helices there are 3.7 amino acids per turn and the carbonyl of the n-th amino acid hydrogen bonds to the amide hydrogen of the n+4 amino acid. The hydrogen bonds are parallel to the long axis of the helix and the side chains extend to the outside of the helical cylinder. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions on the alpha helix. Beta-Sheet The second predominant secondary structure element is the -sheet. When the and angles are close to 180 degrees the peptide chain is fully extended, the -strand conformation exists. A -sheet forms when several -strands run either parallel or anti-parallel to each other. The structures are stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the strands and the anti-parallel structure appears to be more stable due to maximization of the number of possible hydrogen bonds. The atoms participating in hydrogen bonding in a -sheet are the same as those for -helices: the carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In the case of a -sheet the hydrogen bonds are in the plane of the sheet and perpendicular to the peptide chain. The side chains project above and below the plane of the -sheet. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions about the beta-sheet. Proline Kinks the System Proline is unusual among the amino acids and is technically referred to as an imino acid. It is a cyclic molecule forming a five member ring that closes the linear hydrocarbon side chain with the -amino group. Because of this there is no rotation about the bond and therefore, proline terminates helix formation and places further constraints on the folding of the peptide chain. When two amino acids are joined a peptide bond is formed through a condensation reaction. The carbonyl electrons are partially shared by the carbon nitrogen peptide bond giving the carbonyl carbon/amide nitrogen bond a slight double bond character. Because of this partial double bond character, rotation around the C-N peptide bond is prevented and thus the peptide bond is planar. This is the first and a major constraint placed on protein folding. The figure below depicts the six atoms that are included in the planar peptide bond: the carbonyl carbon, the carbonyl oxygen, the alpha carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon, the amide nitrogen (of the second amino acid), the hydrogen attached to the amide nitrogen, and the alpha carbon of the second amino acid. Two possible orientations of the planer peptide bond are possible, the trans from and the cis form. Although both are planer, the trans form is more stable and this form is shown in the diagram below. Since there is no rotation around the C-N bond of the peptide bond, the only possible freedom of rotation in an amino acid residue is the carbonyl carbon-alpha carbon single bond, which is denoted as psi(), and the amide nitrogen-alpha carbon single bond, which is called phi(). If one knows all of the phi-psi angles of rotation for every amino acid residue in a protein, it is possible to define the secondary structure of that protein. It should be noted that not all phi-psi angles are possible due to steric interference, electronic repulsion by side chains of the same charge and other factors all of which represent constraints in the folding of a protein. Watch this short video for a description of the and angles. Secondary structure is generally defined by the interaction of amino acids adjacent to each other in the primary sequence. Elements of secondary structure include the -helix, the beta-sheet and the beta-turn. These structures involve short range interactions that involve hydrogen bonding between peptide bonds and do not involve the interactions of amino acid side chains. Alpha Helix One of the constrained pairs of - angles gives rise to the secondary structural element referred to as the -helix. The -helix is the prominent structure seen hemoglobin shown previously. Because of the regular nature of the structure, every - angle pair in an -helix is the same. -helical structure is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between the backbone carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In -helices there are 3.7 amino acids per turn and the carbonyl of the n-th amino acid hydrogen bonds to the amide hydrogen of the n+4 amino acid. The hydrogen bonds are parallel to the long axis of the helix and the side chains extend to the outside of the helical cylinder. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions on the alpha helix. Beta-Sheet The second predominant secondary structure element is the -sheet. When the and angles are close to 180 degrees the peptide chain is fully extended, the -strand conformation exists. A -sheet forms when several -strands run either parallel or anti-parallel to each other. The structures are stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the strands and the anti-parallel structure appears to be more stable due to maximization of the number of possible hydrogen bonds. The atoms participating in hydrogen bonding in a -sheet are the same as those for -helices: the carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In the case of a -sheet the hydrogen bonds are in the plane of the sheet and perpendicular to the peptide chain. The side chains project above and below the plane of the -sheet. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions about the beta-sheet. Proline is unusual among the amino acids and is technically referred to as an imino acid. It is a cyclic molecule forming a five member ring that closes the linear hydrocarbon side chain with the -amino group. Because of this there is no rotation about the bond and therefore, proline terminates helix formation and places further constraints on the folding of the peptide chain. View the following video describing protein structures.   Tertiary Structure of Proteins After completing this segment, student will be able to: Describe the bonding involved in the folding of proteins. Define the driving force for the folding of a polypeptide in water and in a non-polar solvent. Explain the covalent bonds possible in stabilizing a tertiary structure. Describe structural domains. Hydrophobic interactions drive tertiary structure formation Amino Acid Distribution in Folded Globular Proteins Use these checkboxes to inspect the aspects of this structure in order to answer the questions to the right: Proteins contain a mix of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids. Hydrophobic molecules contain no or very few highly electronegative atoms and do not form strong bonds with water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. This is an example of the hydrophobic effect previously described in the section on bonding. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Stabilization of the Folded State: The tertiary structure is determined by non-covalent interactions that involve amino acid side chains (side chain and backbone interactions, or side chain-side chain interactions). Amino acid residues involved in these interactions can come from distant parts of the polypeptide chain bringing the chain into a more compact shape. The non-covalent interactions between the side chains include the following: Iconic bonds Hydrogen bonds Hydrophobic/van der Walls interactions Your should explore the Jmol structure to determine which of the following is more important in stabilizing the tertiary structure. Stabilization of the Tertiary Structure Protein G Disulfide bonds stabilize tertiary structure Protein folding and stabilization is driven primarily by non-covalent interactions. -helices and -sheets are stabilized by hydrogen bonding. Tertiary structure is driven and stabilized by hydrophobic interactions and involves all types of non-covalent bonding. As you will see in the next page, quaternary structure is stabilized primarily by all types of complimentary, non-covalent interactions. One covalent bond is possible and is formed when two cysteine amino acids (sulfhydryl containing side chain) are close together as a result of tertiary structure formation. The sulfhydryl group is highly reactive and will covalently bond with another sulfhydryl group to form a covalent disulfide bond (a cystine residue). Disulfide bonds also form between peptide chains in forming quaternary structure, for example in the structure of antibodies. The disulfide bond is reversible and is sensitive to the environment. Amino Acid Distribution in Folded Globular Proteins Use these checkboxes to inspect the aspects of this structure in order to answer the questions to the right: Proteins contain a mix of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids. Hydrophobic molecules contain no or very few highly electronegative atoms and do not form strong bonds with water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. This is an example of the hydrophobic effect previously described in the section on bonding. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Stabilization of the Folded State: The tertiary structure is determined by non-covalent interactions that involve amino acid side chains (side chain and backbone interactions, or side chain-side chain interactions). Amino acid residues involved in these interactions can come from distant parts of the polypeptide chain bringing the chain into a more compact shape. The non-covalent interactions between the side chains include the following: Iconic bonds Hydrogen bonds Hydrophobic/van der Walls interactions Your should explore the Jmol structure to determine which of the following is more important in stabilizing the tertiary structure. Stabilization of the Tertiary Structure Protein G Protein folding and stabilization is driven primarily by non-covalent interactions. -helices and -sheets are stabilized by hydrogen bonding. Tertiary structure is driven and stabilized by hydrophobic interactions and involves all types of non-covalent bonding. As you will see in the next page, quaternary structure is stabilized primarily by all types of complimentary, non-covalent interactions. One covalent bond is possible and is formed when two cysteine amino acids (sulfhydryl containing side chain) are close together as a result of tertiary structure formation. The sulfhydryl group is highly reactive and will covalently bond with another sulfhydryl group to form a covalent disulfide bond (a cystine residue). Disulfide bonds also form between peptide chains in forming quaternary structure, for example in the structure of antibodies. The disulfide bond is reversible and is sensitive to the environment.   Tertiary Structure of Proteins After completing this segment, student will be able to: Describe the bonding involved in the folding of proteins. Define the driving force for the folding of a polypeptide in water and in a non-polar solvent. Explain the covalent bonds possible in stabilizing a tertiary structure. Describe structural domains. Hydrophobic interactions drive tertiary structure formation Amino Acid Distribution in Folded Globular Proteins Use these checkboxes to inspect the aspects of this structure in order to answer the questions to the right: Proteins contain a mix of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids. Hydrophobic molecules contain no or very few highly electronegative atoms and do not form strong bonds with water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. This is an example of the hydrophobic effect previously described in the section on bonding. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Stabilization of the Folded State: The tertiary structure is determined by non-covalent interactions that involve amino acid side chains (side chain and backbone interactions, or side chain-side chain interactions). Amino acid residues involved in these interactions can come from distant parts of the polypeptide chain bringing the chain into a more compact shape. The non-covalent interactions between the side chains include the following: Iconic bonds Hydrogen bonds Hydrophobic/van der Walls interactions Your should explore the Jmol structure to determine which of the following is more important in stabilizing the tertiary structure. Stabilization of the Tertiary Structure Protein G Disulfide bonds stabilize tertiary structure Protein folding and stabilization is driven primarily by non-covalent interactions. -helices and -sheets are stabilized by hydrogen bonding. Tertiary structure is driven and stabilized by hydrophobic interactions and involves all types of non-covalent bonding. As you will see in the next page, quaternary structure is stabilized primarily by all types of complimentary, non-covalent interactions. One covalent bond is possible and is formed when two cysteine amino acids (sulfhydryl containing side chain) are close together as a result of tertiary structure formation. The sulfhydryl group is highly reactive and will covalently bond with another sulfhydryl group to form a covalent disulfide bond (a cystine residue). Disulfide bonds also form between peptide chains in forming quaternary structure, for example in the structure of antibodies. The disulfide bond is reversible and is sensitive to the environment. Amino Acid Distribution in Folded Globular Proteins Use these checkboxes to inspect the aspects of this structure in order to answer the questions to the right: Proteins contain a mix of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids. Hydrophobic molecules contain no or very few highly electronegative atoms and do not form strong bonds with water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. This is an example of the hydrophobic effect previously described in the section on bonding. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Stabilization of the Folded State: The tertiary structure is determined by non-covalent interactions that involve amino acid side chains (side chain and backbone interactions, or side chain-side chain interactions). Amino acid residues involved in these interactions can come from distant parts of the polypeptide chain bringing the chain into a more compact shape. The non-covalent interactions between the side chains include the following: Iconic bonds Hydrogen bonds Hydrophobic/van der Walls interactions Your should explore the Jmol structure to determine which of the following is more important in stabilizing the tertiary structure. Stabilization of the Tertiary Structure Protein G Protein folding and stabilization is driven primarily by non-covalent interactions. -helices and -sheets are stabilized by hydrogen bonding. Tertiary structure is driven and stabilized by hydrophobic interactions and involves all types of non-covalent bonding. As you will see in the next page, quaternary structure is stabilized primarily by all types of complimentary, non-covalent interactions. One covalent bond is possible and is formed when two cysteine amino acids (sulfhydryl containing side chain) are close together as a result of tertiary structure formation. The sulfhydryl group is highly reactive and will covalently bond with another sulfhydryl group to form a covalent disulfide bond (a cystine residue). Disulfide bonds also form between peptide chains in forming quaternary structure, for example in the structure of antibodies. The disulfide bond is reversible and is sensitive to the environment.   Redox Reactions By the end of this module, students should be able to: Describe the direction of electron transfer in oxidation/reduction reactions. State the name of two common organic electron carriers and show familiarity with changes in the structure that occurs on oxidation/reduction. Explain how to balance redox reactions. Oxidation-reduction reactions, or Redox reactions are common in metabolic pathways. Generally, degradative (catabolic) pathways cause the net oxidation of compounds, releasing energy. In contrast, synthetic (anabolilc) pathways, are generally reductive pathways. Oxidations involve the loss of electrons. Reductions involve the gain of electrons. Here are two mnemonics to help you remember where the electrons go during redox reactions: LEO GER: "leo [the lion] goes grr". Lose electrons oxidation, gain electron reduction. OIL RIG: Oxidation involves loss, reduction involves gain. An example of an oxidation is the conversion of iron from its metallic state, Fe0, to its rusted form, Fe+3, by the loss of three electrons. Oxidation and reduction of iron. Metallic iron, Fe0, becomes oxidized to Fe+3 (otherwise known as rust) by the removal of 3 electrons. The above reaction is an incomplete description of a redox reaction because it does not indicate the fate of the electrons that were obtained from iron. Since free electrons generally cannot exist, all oxidation reactions must be coupled to a corresponding reduction. Since the above reaction only describes one-half of the reaction it is referred to as a half-reaction. The oxidation of iron could be coupled to the reduction of copper ions, which is described by the following half-reaction: Reduction of copper ion from its +2 state to +1 state by gain of an electron. The complete reaction, balanced such that there are no free electrons, is: A balanced redox equation. Three copper2+ ions provide a total of three electrons to oxidize metallic iron to Fe3+. Note that there are no free electrons. The pair of compounds that exchange electrons are often referred to as a redox couple. Redox Carriers In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. The chemical structures of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are shown. These two compounds are commonly used as electron acceptors in metabolic pathways. The portion of each molecule that accepts electrons during the reduction process is highlighted in yellow. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. The oxidation of an aldehyde to a carboxylic acid. The two electrons released by the aldehyde are transferred to NAD+ to make NADH. In this diagram only the portion of NAD+/NADH that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the NAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Oxidation of FAD. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. The oxidation of an alkane to an alkene. The two electrons released by the alkane are transferred to FAD to make FADH2. In this diagram only the portion of FAD/FADH2 that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the FAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Balancing Redox Reactions It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . The addition of water to a double bond is a common reaction in many pathways. Is it a redox reaction? The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Try the following mini-tutor to test your skill at assessing whether a redox reaction has occurred. In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. The chemical structures of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are shown. These two compounds are commonly used as electron acceptors in metabolic pathways. The portion of each molecule that accepts electrons during the reduction process is highlighted in yellow. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. The oxidation of an aldehyde to a carboxylic acid. The two electrons released by the aldehyde are transferred to NAD+ to make NADH. In this diagram only the portion of NAD+/NADH that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the NAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Oxidation of FAD. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. The oxidation of an alkane to an alkene. The two electrons released by the alkane are transferred to FAD to make FADH2. In this diagram only the portion of FAD/FADH2 that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the FAD molecule is represented by 'R'. It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . The addition of water to a double bond is a common reaction in many pathways. Is it a redox reaction? The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Try the following mini-tutor to test your skill at assessing whether a redox reaction has occurred.   Redox Reactions By the end of this module, students should be able to: Understand the direction of electron transfer in oxidation/reduction reactions. State the name of two common organic electron carriers and show familiarity with changes in the structure that occurs on oxidation/reduction. Learn how to balance redox reactions. Oxidation-reduction reactions, or Redox reactions are common in metabolic pathways. Generally, degradative (catabolic) pathways cause the net oxidation of compounds, releasing energy. In contrast, synthetic (anabolilc) pathways, are generally reductive pathways. Oxidations involve the loss of electrons. Reductions involve the gain of electrons. Here are two mnemonics to help you remember where the electrons go during redox reactions: LEO GER: "leo [the lion] goes grr". Lose electrons oxidation, gain electron reduction. OIL RIG: Oxidation involves loss, reduction involves gain. An example of an oxidation is the conversion of iron from its metallic state, Fe0, to its rusted form, Fe+3, by the loss of three electrons. Oxidation and reduction of iron. Metallic iron, Fe0, becomes oxidized to Fe+3 (otherwise known as rust) by the removal of 3 electrons. The above reaction is an incomplete description of a redox reaction because it does not indicate the fate of the electrons that were obtained from iron. Since free electrons generally cannot exist, all oxidation reactions must be coupled to a corresponding reduction. Since the above reaction only describes one-half of the reaction it is referred to as a half-reaction. The oxidation of iron could be coupled to the reduction of copper ions, which is described by the following half-reaction: Reduction of copper ion from its +2 state to +1 state by gain of an electron. The complete reaction, balanced such that there are no free electrons, is: A balanced redox equation. Three copper2+ ions provide a total of three electrons to oxidize metallic iron to Fe3+. Note that there are no free electrons. The pair of compounds that exchange electrons are often referred to as a redox couple. Redox Carriers In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. The chemical structures of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are shown. These two compounds are commonly used as electron acceptors in metabolic pathways. The portion of each molecule that accepts electrons during the reduction process is highlighted in yellow. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. The oxidation of an aldehyde to a carboxylic acid. The two electrons released by the aldehyde are transferred to NAD+ to make NADH. In this diagram only the portion of NAD+/NADH that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the NAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Oxidation of FAD. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. The oxidation of an alkane to an alkene. The two electrons released by the alkane are transferred to FAD to make FADH2. In this diagram only the portion of FAD/FADH2 that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the FAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Balancing Redox Reactions It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . The addition of water to a double bond is a common reaction in many pathways. Is it a redox reaction? The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Try the following mini-tutor to test your skill at assessing whether a redox reaction has occurred. In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. The chemical structures of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are shown. These two compounds are commonly used as electron acceptors in metabolic pathways. The portion of each molecule that accepts electrons during the reduction process is highlighted in yellow. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. The oxidation of an aldehyde to a carboxylic acid. The two electrons released by the aldehyde are transferred to NAD+ to make NADH. In this diagram only the portion of NAD+/NADH that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the NAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Oxidation of FAD. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. The oxidation of an alkane to an alkene. The two electrons released by the alkane are transferred to FAD to make FADH2. In this diagram only the portion of FAD/FADH2 that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the FAD molecule is represented by 'R'. It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . The addition of water to a double bond is a common reaction in many pathways. Is it a redox reaction? The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Try the following mini-tutor to test your skill at assessing whether a redox reaction has occurred.   Redox Reactions By the end of this module, students should be able to: Understand the direction of electron transfer in oxidation/reduction reactions. State the name of two common organic electron carriers and show familiarity with changes in the structure that occurs on oxidation/reduction. Learn how to balance redox reactions. Oxidation-reduction reactions, or Redox reactions are common in metabolic pathways. Generally, degradative (catabolic) pathways cause the net oxidation of compounds, releasing energy. In contrast, synthetic (anabolilc) pathways, are generally reductive pathways. Oxidations involve the loss of electrons. Reductions involve the gain of electrons. Here are two mnemonics to help you remember where the electrons go during redox reactions: LEO GER: "leo [the lion] goes grr". Lose electrons oxidation, gain electron reduction. OIL RIG: Oxidation involves loss, reduction involves gain. An example of an oxidation is the conversion of iron from its metallic state, Fe0, to its rusted form, Fe+3, by the loss of three electrons. Oxidation and reduction of iron. Metallic iron, Fe0, becomes oxidized to Fe+3 (otherwise known as rust) by the removal of 3 electrons. The above reaction is an incomplete description of a redox reaction because it does not indicate the fate of the electrons that were obtained from iron. Since free electrons generally cannot exist, all oxidation reactions must be coupled to a corresponding reduction. Since the above reaction only describes one-half of the reaction it is referred to as a half-reaction. The oxidation of iron could be coupled to the reduction of copper ions, which is described by the following half-reaction: Reduction of copper ion from its +2 state to +1 state by gain of an electron. The complete reaction, balanced such that there are no free electrons, is: A balanced redox equation. Three copper2+ ions provide a total of three electrons to oxidize metallic iron to Fe3+. Note that there are no free electrons. The pair of compounds that exchange electrons are often referred to as a redox couple. Redox Carriers In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. The chemical structures of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are shown. These two compounds are commonly used as electron acceptors in metabolic pathways. The portion of each molecule that accepts electrons during the reduction process is highlighted in yellow. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. The oxidation of an aldehyde to a carboxylic acid. The two electrons released by the aldehyde are transferred to NAD+ to make NADH. In this diagram only the portion of NAD+/NADH that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the NAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Oxidation of FAD. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. The oxidation of an alkane to an alkene. The two electrons released by the alkane are transferred to FAD to make FADH2. In this diagram only the portion of FAD/FADH2 that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the FAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Balancing Redox Reactions It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . The addition of water to a double bond is a common reaction in many pathways. Is it a redox reaction? The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. The chemical structures of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are shown. These two compounds are commonly used as electron acceptors in metabolic pathways. The portion of each molecule that accepts electrons during the reduction process is highlighted in yellow. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. The oxidation of an aldehyde to a carboxylic acid. The two electrons released by the aldehyde are transferred to NAD+ to make NADH. In this diagram only the portion of NAD+/NADH that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the NAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Oxidation of FAD. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. The oxidation of an alkane to an alkene. The two electrons released by the alkane are transferred to FAD to make FADH2. In this diagram only the portion of FAD/FADH2 that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the FAD molecule is represented by 'R'. It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . The addition of water to a double bond is a common reaction in many pathways. Is it a redox reaction? The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction.   Condensation: Formation of the Glycosidic Bond While the monosaccharides can serve directly as sources of energy, as will be seen elsewhere in the course, they are also the building blocks for many molecules that are used for structure, energy storage and signaling. Here we will explore the process by which simple carbohydrates are linked together using a condensation reaction. Time will be spent on understanding this reaction since it is the same reaction that is used to link amino acids together to make proteins and fatty acids to glycerol to made the components of biological membranes. As described previously the aldehyde form of aldoses and ketone form of ketoses spontaneously form five and six member ring structures called furanoses and pyranoses respectively. This ring closure was an example of an alcohol functional group reacting with the carbon of the carbonyl functional group in either the aldehyde (aldose) or ketone (ketose) group. This is illustrated below. Notice that while atoms are moving from place to place on the structure, there is no net gain or loss of atoms in the closing of the ring to form what is referred to as a hemiacetal. Furthermore, this ring closure is freely reversible, which allows the alpha form of the ring to be in equilibrium with the beta form. Ring formation in Glucose Starting with the hemiacetal (closed ring) structure, the unique, newly created, asymmetric center has a special name: the anomeric carbon. In the structure of glucose given below, the anomeric carbon, which is created by forming the six member (pyranose) hemiacetal structure, is highlighted. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to that carbon are unique . This anomeric carbon is the target for the formation of a covalent bond between it and potentially any hydroxyl functional group on any other monosacchardie. The covalent bond formed between the anomeric carbon and a hydroxyl group is called a glycosidic bond and the final structure is referred to as an acetal. The equation for the formation of the glycosidic bond is given below. In this reaction, a molecule of water is lost during the combining of the two glucose molecules to form the glycosidic bond. This type of reaction is referred to as a condensation reaction. The reverse of this reaction, requiring the addition of a water molecule, is referred to as a hydrolysis reaction. These combined forward and reverse reactions (condensation and hydrolysis) form the basis for the creation of most of the covalent assemblies in biological systems. The hydroxyl groups from the 1 carbon and 4 carbon react to produce an 1,4-glycosidic bond and water. While all linkages between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and every hydroxyl of a second carbohydrate are possible, it is important to understand, that in biological systems, very little is left to chance, and in fact, every reaction that takes place in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme. Just as we have stated that bioselectivity dictates that D carbohydrates are used by biological systems, the formation of glycosidic bonds is catalyzed by specific enzymes that direct the formation of specific glycosidic bonds between the anomeric carbon of one defined carbohydrate and a specific hydroxyl function of a defined second carbohydrate. Each resulting disaccharide is a different structure. This is another example of bioselectivity. It should also be noted that while the transformation from the alpha to the beta form of an individual carbohydrate at the anomeric carbon is freely reversible and dictated by equilibrium, that freedom of conversion is lost once the anomeric carbon is involved in a glycosidic bond. Furthermore, the condensation/hydrolysis reaction is generally written as an equilibrium; however, the glycosidic (acetal) linkage is very stable and does not spontaneously break (hydrolyze) without the input of energy and the use of a specific enzyme. The stability of the glycosidic bond contributes to the effective use of the polysaccharides in maintaining structure. While the monosaccharides can serve directly as sources of energy, as will be seen elsewhere in the course, they are also the building blocks for many molecules that are used for structure, energy storage and signaling. Here we will explore the process by which simple carbohydrates are linked together using a condensation reaction. Time will be spent on understanding this reaction since it is the same reaction that is used to link amino acids together to make proteins and fatty acids to glycerol to made the components of biological membranes. As described previously the aldehyde form of aldoses and ketone form of ketoses spontaneously form five and six member ring structures called furanoses and pyranoses respectively. This ring closure was an example of an alcohol functional group reacting with the carbon of the carbonyl functional group in either the aldehyde (aldose) or ketone (ketose) group. This is illustrated below. Notice that while atoms are moving from place to place on the structure, there is no net gain or loss of atoms in the closing of the ring to form what is referred to as a hemiacetal. Furthermore, this ring closure is freely reversible, which allows the alpha form of the ring to be in equilibrium with the beta form. Ring formation in Glucose Starting with the hemiacetal (closed ring) structure, the unique, newly created, asymmetric center has a special name: the anomeric carbon. In the structure of glucose given below, the anomeric carbon, which is created by forming the six member (pyranose) hemiacetal structure, is highlighted. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to that carbon are unique . This anomeric carbon is the target for the formation of a covalent bond between it and potentially any hydroxyl functional group on any other monosacchardie. The covalent bond formed between the anomeric carbon and a hydroxyl group is called a glycosidic bond and the final structure is referred to as an acetal. The equation for the formation of the glycosidic bond is given below. In this reaction, a molecule of water is lost during the combining of the two glucose molecules to form the glycosidic bond. This type of reaction is referred to as a condensation reaction. The reverse of this reaction, requiring the addition of a water molecule, is referred to as a hydrolysis reaction. These combined forward and reverse reactions (condensation and hydrolysis) form the basis for the creation of most of the covalent assemblies in biological systems. The hydroxyl groups from the 1 carbon and 4 carbon react to produce an 1,4-glycosidic bond and water. While all linkages between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and every hydroxyl of a second carbohydrate are possible, it is important to understand, that in biological systems, very little is left to chance, and in fact, every reaction that takes place in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme. Just as we have stated that bioselectivity dictates that D carbohydrates are used by biological systems, the formation of glycosidic bonds is catalyzed by specific enzymes that direct the formation of specific glycosidic bonds between the anomeric carbon of one defined carbohydrate and a specific hydroxyl function of a defined second carbohydrate. Each resulting disaccharide is a different structure. This is another example of bioselectivity. It should also be noted that while the transformation from the alpha to the beta form of an individual carbohydrate at the anomeric carbon is freely reversible and dictated by equilibrium, that freedom of conversion is lost once the anomeric carbon is involved in a glycosidic bond. Furthermore, the condensation/hydrolysis reaction is generally written as an equilibrium; however, the glycosidic (acetal) linkage is very stable and does not spontaneously break (hydrolyze) without the input of energy and the use of a specific enzyme. The stability of the glycosidic bond contributes to the effective use of the polysaccharides in maintaining structure.   Simple Carbohydrates: Monosaccharides Monosaccharides The simplest of the carbohydrates fall into two categories or structures that differ only in the arrangement of the atoms as seen below. In fact, in biological systems it is quite easy to convert between the two forms using catalysts. The unique functional group associated with that category defines each of the categories. In the case of the structure on the left, the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. This category of carbohydrates is, thus, referred to as aldoses. In contrast, the structure on the right has its carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) and this carbonyl is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus, making this carbonyl a ketone. Carbohydrates containing this ketone group are referred to as ketoses. Aldoses A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. Glyceraldehyde was chosen as the first carbohydrate to study because it provides another example of the bioselectivity of biological systems. In this case the selectivity is based on structural discrimination and will apply to all of the carbohydrates. Examine the glyceraldehyde structure given above and determine which of the carbons has a unique composition of four bonding partners. The number 1 carbon has three bonding partners: an oxygen that is double bonded to the carbon, a hydrogen, and the remainder of the structure. The number 2 carbon has an aldehyde, a hydrogen, a hydroxyl group and the rest of the molecule attached, while the number three carbon has a hydroxyl, two hydrogens and the upper portion of the molecule attached. The number 2 carbon isthe only carbon that has its four bonds involved with four different groups and, thus, is a unique carbon identified as a chiral or asymmetric center. Based on the fact that this chiral carbon has tetrahedral bonding structure, it can form structural enantiomers. You should convince yourself that it is not possible to superimpose the bottom two structures. They are in fact different structures. For glyceraldehyde, where A is an aldehyde, B is a hydrogen and X is the hydroxymethyl (CH2OH) group, the structure on the left would be referred to as D-glyceraldehyde and the structure on the right would be referred to as L-glyceraldehyde based on the orientation of the hydroxyl functional group. Biological systems are selective and while it is possible to synthesize both of the glyceraldehyde enantiomers in the chemistry lab, a cell primarily produces and uses the D form of glyceraldehyde. This is dictated by the way in which molecules are selected and used in a cell. Every reaction in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme and these enzyme catalysts have the ability to discriminate between different structures. In this case the enzymes can discriminate between D and L carbohydrates. Thus as a general rule, all carbohydrates in biological systems are D. Just as the cell can recognize the difference between D and L, the expectation for this course is that you are able to recognize the structures of the carbohydrate but it will not be necessary to know how to draw the structures. Aldoses Now we will build larger aldoses by adding one carbon at a time to the structure. In doing this, two components will remain unchanged, the aldehyde group will always be the number one carbon and the bottom or last two carbons will always represent the D form of the carbohydrate (monosaccharide). Add another carbon to the structure given above. How many possible structures result from adding another carbon to this carbohydrate? What must remain constant in the representation of these structures? One of these structures is very important to the biological system: D-ribose. This aldose makes up the backbone structure of RNA and a derivative of it, 2-deoxyribose, makes up the backbone of DNA. Similarly, an additional carbon can be added to the pentoses to form the possible hexoses (six carbon monosaccharides). An expansive tree on structures can be built starting with the simplest aldose. While all of these structures are possible starting with D-glyceraldehyde, the biological system only utilizes a few of these structures. Of the hexoses, the predominant compound is D-glucose, one of the most prevalent sugars in biology. The linear structure of glucose is shown below, along with ribose. It is useful to provide shorthand notations and alternative ways of representing the carbohydrates. Below are equivalent alternative representations of the glucose and ribose. The form on the right is typically found in books and manuscripts. It should always be remembered that while the structure on the right would appear to represent carbon as having planar bonding, in fact each of the carbons has a tetrahedral bonding structure. Cyclization of Aldoses The five (ribose) and six (glucose) membered aldoses have been depicted in their linear form. However, these compounds will spontaneously form 5 member or 6 member ring structures if possible. These are more stable forms of the compounds. Now let’s represent the ribose structure as it is actually found in solution. As previously mentioned, compounds will spontaneously form 5 or 6 member rings if possible. For aldoses this is possible because of the reactive character of the aldehyde group. For ribose this means that if the oxygen on the number 4 carbon forms a bond with the number one aldehyde carbon and the hydrogen on the hydroxyl shifts to the carbonyl oxygen on the aldehyde the result is a five-member ring referred to as a furanose. Examination of the result of this transformation, in which the total number of carbons, hydrogens and oxygens between the two structures has not changed, shows that the number one carbon has now become a new asymmetric (chiral) center where it wasn’t before the ring closure. This new chiral center is called the anomeric carbon. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to the anomeric carbon are unique, making it a chiral center. The drawing below shows not only the possible structures resulting from the ring closure but also shows the more traditional representation of these structures in their ring configuration. In all of these cases the structure is still ribose. The two new structures created by the ring closure create two additional conformations of the number one carbon: alpha with the hydroxyl on the right of the stick structure or pointing down in the ring representation, and beta with the hydroxyl on the left of the stick structure and pointing up in the ring structure. It should also be noted that as represented in the drawing these structures are all in equilibrium with each other and the alpha structure can be converted to the beta structure and visa versa as long as each structure can be converted to the free aldehyde structure. The central image shows how the two furanose forms of ribose are generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. The hexoses are capable of forming a six member pyranose ring by the same mechanism. Ring formation in glucose is shown in the diagram below. As with ribose, a new chiral center is formed, giving two possible forms of glucose, alpha and beta. The central image shows how the two pyranose forms of glucose that can be generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. Epimers: Monosaccharides that differ by chirality at one position (besides the anomeric carbon) are called epimers. For example, glucose and galactose are epimers of each other. Galactose is one of the monosaccharides that make up lactose, or milk sugar. There are enzyme catalysts capable of inter-converting galactose to glucose by inverting the chiral center. Thus the galactose that is released from lactose can be concerted to glucose and used for energy. Instructions: Use the 3D representations of glucose and galactose to determine which carbon differs in chirality between the two aldoses. Ketoses Ketoses A ketose is a carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon that is flanked by carbons on both sides. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. In the same way that the larger aldoses were generated, single carbons can be added to the structure of the dihydroxyacetone and an expansive tree of structures result. If we examine the result of adding a single carbon, the result is the acquisition of an new asymmetric center. In the case of a four carbon ketose, which is formed by the addition of a C(H2O) group below the ketone group in dihydroxyacetone phosphate, the new chiral center can be either D or L. In general, only the D structures of the ketoses are used by biological systems due to bioselectivity. While it is clear that many ketose structures are possible, only a few are used in biological systems and the focus for this course will be on the hexose D-fructose. The fructose structure has the ketone group as at the number 2 carbon and the D designation based on the chirality at carbon number 5. Applying the principle that compounds will spontaneously form stable ring structures, and using a mechanism similar to that employed for the aldoses, fructose will spontaneously form a five-member ring structure. These structures are depicted below and are in equilibrium with each other through the free ketone structure. The simplest of the carbohydrates fall into two categories or structures that differ only in the arrangement of the atoms as seen below. In fact, in biological systems it is quite easy to convert between the two forms using catalysts. The unique functional group associated with that category defines each of the categories. In the case of the structure on the left, the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. This category of carbohydrates is, thus, referred to as aldoses. In contrast, the structure on the right has its carbonyl at the number 2 carbon (the center carbon) and this carbonyl is flanked by carbons on both sides, thus, making this carbonyl a ketone. Carbohydrates containing this ketone group are referred to as ketoses. Aldoses A category of simple carbohydrates where the number 1 carbon (the top carbon) contains the carbonyl that is flanked by a hydrogen and a carbon thus making this an aldehyde. Glyceraldehyde was chosen as the first carbohydrate to study because it provides another example of the bioselectivity of biological systems. In this case the selectivity is based on structural discrimination and will apply to all of the carbohydrates. Examine the glyceraldehyde structure given above and determine which of the carbons has a unique composition of four bonding partners. The number 1 carbon has three bonding partners: an oxygen that is double bonded to the carbon, a hydrogen, and the remainder of the structure. The number 2 carbon has an aldehyde, a hydrogen, a hydroxyl group and the rest of the molecule attached, while the number three carbon has a hydroxyl, two hydrogens and the upper portion of the molecule attached. The number 2 carbon isthe only carbon that has its four bonds involved with four different groups and, thus, is a unique carbon identified as a chiral or asymmetric center. Based on the fact that this chiral carbon has tetrahedral bonding structure, it can form structural enantiomers. You should convince yourself that it is not possible to superimpose the bottom two structures. They are in fact different structures. For glyceraldehyde, where A is an aldehyde, B is a hydrogen and X is the hydroxymethyl (CH2OH) group, the structure on the left would be referred to as D-glyceraldehyde and the structure on the right would be referred to as L-glyceraldehyde based on the orientation of the hydroxyl functional group. Biological systems are selective and while it is possible to synthesize both of the glyceraldehyde enantiomers in the chemistry lab, a cell primarily produces and uses the D form of glyceraldehyde. This is dictated by the way in which molecules are selected and used in a cell. Every reaction in a cell is catalyzed by an enzyme and these enzyme catalysts have the ability to discriminate between different structures. In this case the enzymes can discriminate between D and L carbohydrates. Thus as a general rule, all carbohydrates in biological systems are D. Just as the cell can recognize the difference between D and L, the expectation for this course is that you are able to recognize the structures of the carbohydrate but it will not be necessary to know how to draw the structures. Now we will build larger aldoses by adding one carbon at a time to the structure. In doing this, two components will remain unchanged, the aldehyde group will always be the number one carbon and the bottom or last two carbons will always represent the D form of the carbohydrate (monosaccharide). Add another carbon to the structure given above. How many possible structures result from adding another carbon to this carbohydrate? What must remain constant in the representation of these structures? One of these structures is very important to the biological system: D-ribose. This aldose makes up the backbone structure of RNA and a derivative of it, 2-deoxyribose, makes up the backbone of DNA. Similarly, an additional carbon can be added to the pentoses to form the possible hexoses (six carbon monosaccharides). An expansive tree on structures can be built starting with the simplest aldose. While all of these structures are possible starting with D-glyceraldehyde, the biological system only utilizes a few of these structures. Of the hexoses, the predominant compound is D-glucose, one of the most prevalent sugars in biology. The linear structure of glucose is shown below, along with ribose. It is useful to provide shorthand notations and alternative ways of representing the carbohydrates. Below are equivalent alternative representations of the glucose and ribose. The form on the right is typically found in books and manuscripts. It should always be remembered that while the structure on the right would appear to represent carbon as having planar bonding, in fact each of the carbons has a tetrahedral bonding structure. The five (ribose) and six (glucose) membered aldoses have been depicted in their linear form. However, these compounds will spontaneously form 5 member or 6 member ring structures if possible. These are more stable forms of the compounds. Now let’s represent the ribose structure as it is actually found in solution. As previously mentioned, compounds will spontaneously form 5 or 6 member rings if possible. For aldoses this is possible because of the reactive character of the aldehyde group. For ribose this means that if the oxygen on the number 4 carbon forms a bond with the number one aldehyde carbon and the hydrogen on the hydroxyl shifts to the carbonyl oxygen on the aldehyde the result is a five-member ring referred to as a furanose. Examination of the result of this transformation, in which the total number of carbons, hydrogens and oxygens between the two structures has not changed, shows that the number one carbon has now become a new asymmetric (chiral) center where it wasn’t before the ring closure. This new chiral center is called the anomeric carbon. You should examine this structure and convince yourself that the four different substituents attached to the anomeric carbon are unique, making it a chiral center. The drawing below shows not only the possible structures resulting from the ring closure but also shows the more traditional representation of these structures in their ring configuration. In all of these cases the structure is still ribose. The two new structures created by the ring closure create two additional conformations of the number one carbon: alpha with the hydroxyl on the right of the stick structure or pointing down in the ring representation, and beta with the hydroxyl on the left of the stick structure and pointing up in the ring structure. It should also be noted that as represented in the drawing these structures are all in equilibrium with each other and the alpha structure can be converted to the beta structure and visa versa as long as each structure can be converted to the free aldehyde structure. The central image shows how the two furanose forms of ribose are generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. The hexoses are capable of forming a six member pyranose ring by the same mechanism. Ring formation in glucose is shown in the diagram below. As with ribose, a new chiral center is formed, giving two possible forms of glucose, alpha and beta. The central image shows how the two pyranose forms of glucose that can be generated from the linear form. You can manipulate either form in the Jmol window. Epimers: Monosaccharides that differ by chirality at one position (besides the anomeric carbon) are called epimers. For example, glucose and galactose are epimers of each other. Galactose is one of the monosaccharides that make up lactose, or milk sugar. There are enzyme catalysts capable of inter-converting galactose to glucose by inverting the chiral center. Thus the galactose that is released from lactose can be concerted to glucose and used for energy. Instructions: Use the 3D representations of glucose and galactose to determine which carbon differs in chirality between the two aldoses. Ketoses A ketose is a carbohydrate with a carbonyl at the number 2 carbon that is flanked by carbons on both sides. This is a polar, hydrophilic, water-soluble molecule. In the same way that the larger aldoses were generated, single carbons can be added to the structure of the dihydroxyacetone and an expansive tree of structures result. If we examine the result of adding a single carbon, the result is the acquisition of an new asymmetric center. In the case of a four carbon ketose, which is formed by the addition of a C(H2O) group below the ketone group in dihydroxyacetone phosphate, the new chiral center can be either D or L. In general, only the D structures of the ketoses are used by biological systems due to bioselectivity. While it is clear that many ketose structures are possible, only a few are used in biological systems and the focus for this course will be on the hexose D-fructose. The fructose structure has the ketone group as at the number 2 carbon and the D designation based on the chirality at carbon number 5. Applying the principle that compounds will spontaneously form stable ring structures, and using a mechanism similar to that employed for the aldoses, fructose will spontaneously form a five-member ring structure. These structures are depicted below and are in equilibrium with each other through the free ketone structure.   Di- and Polysaccharide Carbohydrates generally exist as di- and polysaccharides used in transport, energy storage, structure and signaling. While the glycosidic bond is always between the anomeric carbon of one carbohydrate and the hydroxyl of another carbohydrate, the number of hydroxyls per monosaccharide and the different orientations of the hydroxyl on the anomeric carbon make the number of potential structures extremely large. Here we will focus on some of the biologically important di- and polysaccharides with an emphasis on the ability to identify and describe the structures not the ability to draw the structures. Disaccharides Two of the most common disaccharides are lactose, or milk sugar, and sucrose, or common table sugar. Each is a form of carbohydrate storage and represents an example of a hetero-disaccharide, i.e. disaccharide formed from two different monosaccharides. Lactose In the case of lactose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of galactose. The chemical structure is described as galactose-beta1,4-glucose; the anomeric carbon of galactose is in the beta conformation and is connected to carbon 4 on glucose. Instructions: The right hand Jmol shows the 3D structure, with one of the monosaccharides highlighted. When answering the questions below the Jmol, keep in mind that the orientation of the two rings in the 3D structure may differ from the 2D line drawing on the left. In the case of sucrose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of fructose. The structure is described as glucose-alpha, beta 1, 2-fructose. In this structure it is instructive to identify the anomeric carbon on the glucose and the fructose molecules since they are both involved in the formation of the glycosidic bond. A third disaccharide that provides a transition to the common polysaccharides is maltose, a homo-disaccharide. The structure is a homo-dimer made up of two molecules of glucose linked by an alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bond. Maltose is commonly found as a dietary supplement and naturally is produced as an intermediate breakdown product of starch. As such it also represents the basic repeating unit of the polysaccharides starch and glycogen. Polysaccharides Homopolysaccharides: Three major homopolymers found in nature are starch, glycogen and cellulose. All three are made of the same building block (subunit or monomer) – glucose, but they are different in structure and function. Starch: The structure of starch has two components: amylose and amylopectin. Amylose is a linear polymer of glucose subunits linked end-to-end by alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bonds. Amylopectin has the same backbone polymer structure as amylose, but also contains branches from the backbone linked by alpha -1,6 glycosidic bonds every 20-30 glucose subunits along the amylose backbone. This gives rise to a highly branched structure used in the storage of glucose in plants. Glycogen is another example of a homo-polysaccharide of glucose with a repeating structural unit of glucose. For glycogen, there is no linear form, but there is a highly branched form that resembles amylopectin with branch points separated by only 8-10 glucose subunits along the backbone. This creates a much denser, more highly packed structure used for storage of glucose in mammalian cells. Cellulose Cellulose plays a structural role as the key component of a plant cell wall. Cellulose is an unbranched polymer, analogous to amylose; however, the linkages between the glucose subunits are beta-1,4, rather than alpha-1,4. This difference in configuration of glycosidic bond leads to differences in structure and in function. Beta-1,4 linkage results in the linear and extended shape of the polymer structure, which allows the strands of cellulose to align and form a hydrogen-bonding network between the hydroxyls on the individual glucose subunits. This hydrogen bonding adds to the rigidity of cellulose cell wall. Another demonstration of bioselectivity is at play in the discrimination between cellulose and amylose by our digestive system. The structural difference between the beta-1,4 link in cellulose and the alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond in amylose is sufficient to require different enzymes to break (hydrolyze) the bonds separating the glucose subunits in each structure. The difference is significant because it prevents humans from being able to use cellulose as a glucose source, while we are able to use glycogen and starch. Humans do not posses the enzyme that hydrolyzes the beta-1,4 link in cellulose. Cellulose Hetero-Polysaccharides: An enormous set of possibilities for structures exist if one considers that variations can occur between the orientation of the glycosidic bond (alpha vs. beta), the sites to which the bond can be made on an adjacent monosaccharide, the number of different carbohydrates involved (glucose, galactose, ribose, etc), and the order in which they appear. Such variation, even when a few monosaccharides are included, can give rise to an enormous number of uniquely recognizable structures. In some cases these varied structures can be attached to proteins and lipids to be used as identification/signaling devices on the surface of cells. Each cell type and each species of microorganism can display a unique identification on its surface to be used in cell recognition and to identify partners in cell-cell interactions. Many other hetero-polysaccharides exist to carryout a variety of functions within an organism. A unique hetero-polysaccharide produced by bacteria is the peptido-glycan that forms the basic structure of the bacterial cell wall. In this case there is a linear hetero-polysaccharide that acts much like the linear strands of cellulose in the plant cell wall. However, as implied by the name, the peptido-glycan is a covalent complex between a polysaccharide (glycan) and a peptide (a fragment of a protein). In the bacterial peptido-glycan, the linear hetero-polysaccharide chains are linked together by covalent bonds using a peptide as the linker. As seen in the illustration below, this means that the bacterial cell wall is fully connected by covalent bonds while the plant cell wall is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between hydroxyl groups on parallel strands. Two of the most common disaccharides are lactose, or milk sugar, and sucrose, or common table sugar. Each is a form of carbohydrate storage and represents an example of a hetero-disaccharide, i.e. disaccharide formed from two different monosaccharides. Lactose In the case of lactose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of galactose. The chemical structure is described as galactose-beta1,4-glucose; the anomeric carbon of galactose is in the beta conformation and is connected to carbon 4 on glucose. Instructions: The right hand Jmol shows the 3D structure, with one of the monosaccharides highlighted. When answering the questions below the Jmol, keep in mind that the orientation of the two rings in the 3D structure may differ from the 2D line drawing on the left. In the case of sucrose, the composition is a molecule of glucose and a molecule of fructose. The structure is described as glucose-alpha, beta 1, 2-fructose. In this structure it is instructive to identify the anomeric carbon on the glucose and the fructose molecules since they are both involved in the formation of the glycosidic bond. A third disaccharide that provides a transition to the common polysaccharides is maltose, a homo-disaccharide. The structure is a homo-dimer made up of two molecules of glucose linked by an alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bond. Maltose is commonly found as a dietary supplement and naturally is produced as an intermediate breakdown product of starch. As such it also represents the basic repeating unit of the polysaccharides starch and glycogen. Homopolysaccharides: Three major homopolymers found in nature are starch, glycogen and cellulose. All three are made of the same building block (subunit or monomer) – glucose, but they are different in structure and function. Starch: The structure of starch has two components: amylose and amylopectin. Amylose is a linear polymer of glucose subunits linked end-to-end by alpha-1, 4 glycosidic bonds. Amylopectin has the same backbone polymer structure as amylose, but also contains branches from the backbone linked by alpha -1,6 glycosidic bonds every 20-30 glucose subunits along the amylose backbone. This gives rise to a highly branched structure used in the storage of glucose in plants. Glycogen is another example of a homo-polysaccharide of glucose with a repeating structural unit of glucose. For glycogen, there is no linear form, but there is a highly branched form that resembles amylopectin with branch points separated by only 8-10 glucose subunits along the backbone. This creates a much denser, more highly packed structure used for storage of glucose in mammalian cells. Cellulose plays a structural role as the key component of a plant cell wall. Cellulose is an unbranched polymer, analogous to amylose; however, the linkages between the glucose subunits are beta-1,4, rather than alpha-1,4. This difference in configuration of glycosidic bond leads to differences in structure and in function. Beta-1,4 linkage results in the linear and extended shape of the polymer structure, which allows the strands of cellulose to align and form a hydrogen-bonding network between the hydroxyls on the individual glucose subunits. This hydrogen bonding adds to the rigidity of cellulose cell wall. Another demonstration of bioselectivity is at play in the discrimination between cellulose and amylose by our digestive system. The structural difference between the beta-1,4 link in cellulose and the alpha-1,4 glycosidic bond in amylose is sufficient to require different enzymes to break (hydrolyze) the bonds separating the glucose subunits in each structure. The difference is significant because it prevents humans from being able to use cellulose as a glucose source, while we are able to use glycogen and starch. Humans do not posses the enzyme that hydrolyzes the beta-1,4 link in cellulose. Cellulose   Protein Function The biological function of most proteins involves binding to something else. The binding event may be the first step in transport, signaling, regulation, or an enzyme-catalyzed reaction. Molecules that bind to proteins without being modified are called ligands. Although ligands are usually small molecules, they can also be larger than the protein to which they are binding. For example, when proteins bind to DNA, it is the DNA that is the ligand. Oxygen is a ligand when it binds to hemoglobin (a protein) during oxygen transport to the tissues. Molecules found on the surface of bacterial cells are ligands when antibodies (proteins) in your blood bind to them during an immune response. Sometimes ligands are given special names to remind us of their function. For example: enzyme inhibitors are ligands that bind to and inhibit enzymes; antigens are ligands that are recognized by antibodies (which are proteins). The ligand binds to the protein by interacting with amino acids in the protein’s binding site. Binding proteins have binding sites for their ligand (L). Binding proteins have amino acids in their binding site that are complementary to the ligand. Generally, a higher degree of complementarity leads to tighter binding and a more specific interaction. The molecules can be complementary in these different ways: The shape of the ligand matches the shape of the ligand binding pocket on the protein. The better the match, the stronger the bond between the ligand and the protein. Any charges on the ligand molecule can be aligned close to opposite charges on the protein's binding site. Remember, opposite charges attract each other. Hydrogen bonds often form between the ligand and the protein binding site. Nonpolar ligands bind more favorably to nonpolar surfaces on the protein. The interactions between proteins and their ligands are incredibly diverse, but they all share some basic ground rules. Protein-ligand binding is: Reversible — bound ligands can be released by the protein. Concentration dependent — the level of binding depends on the ligand concentration. As the ligand concentration increases, so does the amount of protein bound. Limited — once all of the proteins are ligand bound, no additional ligand can bind and the protein is said to be saturated.   Primary Structure of Proteins Protein sequence A protein is composed of amino acids attached in a linear order. This basic level of protein structure is called it's primary structure and derives from the formation of peptide bonds between the individual amino acids. The order of the amino acids is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. Amino acid sequence of Human Estrogen Receptor Amino acids are indicated using the single letter code. For example, the amino acid glycine is abbreviated with the letter G. Higher order structure is determined by the Primary Structure Proteins do not exist as linear threads in the cells but rather as spontaneously folded higher order structures. The higher order structure is determined by the amino acids in the primary structure. The function of a protein is determined by its higher order structure. Proteins take on structure in stages defined by the interactions of amino acids with each other in the primary sequence. The higher order stages of secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure of the estrogen receptor are shown in the movie below. Although the exact structure of the protein was determined using biophysical methods employing sophisticated instruments and calculations, the ability to predict the three dimensional structure (tertiary structure) of a protein de novo is not yet possible. It is possible to make excellent predictions of secondary structure from primary structure and the use of measured constraints on structure based on the structure of the peptide bond and characteristics of individual amino acids is making it possible to approach predictive methods. The stages or levels of protein structure are displayed here: Primary Structure: The amino acid sequence of the protein, with no regard for the conformation of the amino acids. Secondary Structure: short range interactions involving only mainchain atoms resulting in -helices and -sheets Tertiary Structure: long range interactions resulting in the 3-D Folding of a single polypeptide chain. Quaternary Structure: The interaction of two or more peptide chains to make a functional protein. The oxygen transport protein hemoglobin shows this level of structure. The functional protein is composed of four chains. Quaternary Structure of Hemoglobin The oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin, is shown on the left. The heme groups, which are colored purple, are responsible for binding the oxygen. The protein component of hemoglobin is colored gray. Hemoglobin looks complicated, but we can understand its structure using a hierarchical description of the structure. Primary Structure script('reset;select all;backbone off;cartoon off;wireframe off;font echo 12;set echo middle left;echo Chain A:|Val-Leu-Ser-Pro-Ala-Asp-...;color echo black;') is the sequence of amino acids. Hemoglobin has four separate polypeptide chains, the first few amino acids of the first chain (chain A) will appear after clicking the button. Secondary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;delay 0.25;select *:B and 4-18;define secondary selected;select all;color backbone cpk;set windowCentered off;center 11:B.CA;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 200;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;labels off;select secondary;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent;delay 0.2;select (not secondary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.15;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.1;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.1;backbone 25;color backbone [255,255,255];delay 0.1;backbone off;moveto 1 -200 966 -164 109 250;select all')describes the local structure of just the main chain atoms. Each subunit of hemoglobin contains a number of alpha-helical secondary structural elements. Clicking on the button will show you one of these. Tertiary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select *:B;define tertiary selected;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;labels off;select tertiary;backbone 150;color group;delay 0.5;select (not tertiary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.2;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.2;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.2;backbone 25;delay 0.1;select all;backbone off;select tertiary;backbone 150;delay 1.0;set windowCentered off;center *:B;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 150;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of both the mainchain and sidechain atoms of one poly-peptide chain. Clicking on the button will show you the tertiary structure of one of the sub-units of hemoglobin. Of course, the tertiary structure is built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can highlight with a pink ribbon by clicking herescript('set echo off;select *:B;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent') Quaternary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of all of the different poly-peptide chains that comprise the functional molecule. Clicking on the button will show you the complete quaternary structure of hemoglobin. You can click herescript('select all;color backbone chain') to color each of the separate chains in hemoglobin. Of course, the quaternary structure is also built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can view by clicking herescript('select all;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent') A protein is composed of amino acids attached in a linear order. This basic level of protein structure is called it's primary structure and derives from the formation of peptide bonds between the individual amino acids. The order of the amino acids is determined by information encoded in the cell's genes. An example of a protein sequence is shown below where the one letter abbreviations are used for each of the 20 amino acids used in cellular protein synthesis. Amino acid sequence of Human Estrogen Receptor Amino acids are indicated using the single letter code. For example, the amino acid glycine is abbreviated with the letter G. Proteins do not exist as linear threads in the cells but rather as spontaneously folded higher order structures. The higher order structure is determined by the amino acids in the primary structure. The function of a protein is determined by its higher order structure. Proteins take on structure in stages defined by the interactions of amino acids with each other in the primary sequence. The higher order stages of secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structure of the estrogen receptor are shown in the movie below. Although the exact structure of the protein was determined using biophysical methods employing sophisticated instruments and calculations, the ability to predict the three dimensional structure (tertiary structure) of a protein de novo is not yet possible. It is possible to make excellent predictions of secondary structure from primary structure and the use of measured constraints on structure based on the structure of the peptide bond and characteristics of individual amino acids is making it possible to approach predictive methods. The stages or levels of protein structure are displayed here: Primary Structure: The amino acid sequence of the protein, with no regard for the conformation of the amino acids. Secondary Structure: short range interactions involving only mainchain atoms resulting in -helices and -sheets Tertiary Structure: long range interactions resulting in the 3-D Folding of a single polypeptide chain. Quaternary Structure: The interaction of two or more peptide chains to make a functional protein. The oxygen transport protein hemoglobin shows this level of structure. The functional protein is composed of four chains. Quaternary Structure of Hemoglobin The oxygen transport protein, hemoglobin, is shown on the left. The heme groups, which are colored purple, are responsible for binding the oxygen. The protein component of hemoglobin is colored gray. Hemoglobin looks complicated, but we can understand its structure using a hierarchical description of the structure. Primary Structure script('reset;select all;backbone off;cartoon off;wireframe off;font echo 12;set echo middle left;echo Chain A:|Val-Leu-Ser-Pro-Ala-Asp-...;color echo black;') is the sequence of amino acids. Hemoglobin has four separate polypeptide chains, the first few amino acids of the first chain (chain A) will appear after clicking the button. Secondary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;delay 0.25;select *:B and 4-18;define secondary selected;select all;color backbone cpk;set windowCentered off;center 11:B.CA;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 200;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;labels off;select secondary;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent;delay 0.2;select (not secondary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.15;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.1;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.1;backbone 25;color backbone [255,255,255];delay 0.1;backbone off;moveto 1 -200 966 -164 109 250;select all')describes the local structure of just the main chain atoms. Each subunit of hemoglobin contains a number of alpha-helical secondary structural elements. Clicking on the button will show you one of these. Tertiary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select *:B;define tertiary selected;select all;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;labels off;select tertiary;backbone 150;color group;delay 0.5;select (not tertiary);backbone 125;color backbone [200,200,200];delay 0.2;backbone 100;color backbone [220,220,220];delay 0.2;backbone 75;color backbone [240,240,240];delay 0.2;backbone 50;color backbone [250,250,250];delay 0.2;backbone 25;delay 0.1;select all;backbone off;select tertiary;backbone 150;delay 1.0;set windowCentered off;center *:B;set windowCentered on;zoomto 1.0 150;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of both the mainchain and sidechain atoms of one poly-peptide chain. Clicking on the button will show you the tertiary structure of one of the sub-units of hemoglobin. Of course, the tertiary structure is built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can highlight with a pink ribbon by clicking herescript('set echo off;select *:B;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent') Quaternary Structure script('reset;set echo off;select all;cartoon off;wireframe off;spacefill off;backbone 150;color backbone cpk;select hem;wireframe 100;color purple;select all;set specular on') is the complete description of the structure of all of the different poly-peptide chains that comprise the functional molecule. Clicking on the button will show you the complete quaternary structure of hemoglobin. You can click herescript('select all;color backbone chain') to color each of the separate chains in hemoglobin. Of course, the quaternary structure is also built-up from secondary structural elements, which you can view by clicking herescript('select all;cartoon;color cartoon structure;color cartoon translucent')   Introduction to Proteins Proteins are the most functionally diverse group of biomolecules we will examine in this unit. Critical to our diet, protein can be found in animal products like meats and cheeses, as well as in plant products like beans and grains. Kwashiorkor, which causes a distinct swelling of the abdomen, is often seen in malnourished children who lack sufficient protein in their diets. Proteins are also found in many toxins, such as the incredibly poisonous toxin produced by the bacterial species Clostridium botulinum. Studies have shown that just one teaspoon of this poison, which is a protein, would be enough to kill 20 percent of the world’s population! This module will take a closer look at the structure of a protein and examine how protein structure enables such a wide range of diverse functions.   Quaternary Structure of Proteins More than one peptide forms a functional protein There are many examples of proteins that require more than one peptide chain to be functional. In the case of the estrogen receptor two identical peptide chains come together to form the functional protein. This is called a homo dimer. Hemoglobin is composed of four peptide chains; two identical alpha chains and two identical beta chains. The individual peptides or sub-units of estrogen and hemoglobin are held together by all of the non-covalent bonding types: hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding and hydrophobic interactions . The interaction of the subunits in a quaternary complex represents another form of equilibrium. The individual polypeptide chains are made separately and must associate through specific complimentary interactions. Antibodies represent a different type of quaternary structure because the individual subunits are linked by disulfide bonds. The structure is a dimer of dimers and the basic unit is a large peptide (the heavy chain) bound to a smaller chain (light chain) by disulfide bonds. Since this dimer is a combination of two different peptides it is called a heterodimer. Two of these heterodimers are joined by disulfide bonds between the heavy chains to form the final tetrameric structure. There are many examples of proteins that require more than one peptide chain to be functional. In the case of the estrogen receptor two identical peptide chains come together to form the functional protein. This is called a homo dimer. Hemoglobin is composed of four peptide chains; two identical alpha chains and two identical beta chains. The individual peptides or sub-units of estrogen and hemoglobin are held together by all of the non-covalent bonding types: hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding and hydrophobic interactions . The interaction of the subunits in a quaternary complex represents another form of equilibrium. The individual polypeptide chains are made separately and must associate through specific complimentary interactions. Antibodies represent a different type of quaternary structure because the individual subunits are linked by disulfide bonds. The structure is a dimer of dimers and the basic unit is a large peptide (the heavy chain) bound to a smaller chain (light chain) by disulfide bonds. Since this dimer is a combination of two different peptides it is called a heterodimer. Two of these heterodimers are joined by disulfide bonds between the heavy chains to form the final tetrameric structure.   Secondary Structure of Proteins Constraints Determining Secondary Structure Peptide Bond is Planar When two amino acids are joined a peptide bond is formed through a condensation reaction. The carbonyl electrons are partially shared by the carbon nitrogen peptide bond giving the carbonyl carbon/amide nitrogen bond a slight double bond character. Because of this partial double bond character, rotation around the C-N peptide bond is prevented and thus the peptide bond is planar. This is the first and a major constraint placed on protein folding. The figure below depicts the six atoms that are included in the planar peptide bond: the carbonyl carbon, the carbonyl oxygen, the alpha carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon, the amide nitrogen (of the second amino acid), the hydrogen attached to the amide nitrogen, and the alpha carbon of the second amino acid. Two possible orientations of the planer peptide bond are possible, the trans from and the cis form. Although both are planer, the trans form is more stable and this form is shown in the diagram below. Since there is no rotation around the C-N bond of the peptide bond, the only possible freedom of rotation in an amino acid residue is the carbonyl carbon-alpha carbon single bond, which is denoted as psi(), and the amide nitrogen-alpha carbon single bond, which is called phi(). If one knows all of the phi-psi angles of rotation for every amino acid residue in a protein, it is possible to define the secondary structure of that protein. It should be noted that not all phi-psi angles are possible due to steric interference, electronic repulsion by side chains of the same charge and other factors all of which represent constraints in the folding of a protein. Side Chain Constrains and Angles Secondary structure is generally defined by the interaction of amino acids adjacent to each other in the primary sequence. Elements of secondary structure include the -helix, the beta-sheet and the beta-turn. These structures involve short range interactions that involve hydrogen bonding between peptide bonds and do not involve the interactions of amino acid side chains. Alpha Helix One of the constrained pairs of - angles gives rise to the secondary structural element referred to as the -helix. The -helix is the prominent structure seen hemoglobin shown previously. Because of the regular nature of the structure, every - angle pair in an -helix is the same. -helical structure is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between the backbone carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In -helices there are 3.7 amino acids per turn and the carbonyl of the n-th amino acid hydrogen bonds to the amide hydrogen of the n+4 amino acid. The hydrogen bonds are parallel to the long axis of the helix and the side chains extend to the outside of the helical cylinder. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions on the alpha helix. Beta-Sheet The second predominant secondary structure element is the -sheet. When the and angles are close to 180 degrees the peptide chain is fully extended, the -strand conformation exists. A -sheet forms when several -strands run either parallel or anti-parallel to each other. The structures are stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the strands and the anti-parallel structure appears to be more stable due to maximization of the number of possible hydrogen bonds. The atoms participating in hydrogen bonding in a -sheet are the same as those for -helices: the carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In the case of a -sheet the hydrogen bonds are in the plane of the sheet and perpendicular to the peptide chain. The side chains project above and below the plane of the -sheet. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions about the beta-sheet. Proline Kinks the System Proline is unusual among the amino acids and is technically referred to as an imino acid. It is a cyclic molecule forming a five member ring that closes the linear hydrocarbon side chain with the -amino group. Because of this there is no rotation about the bond and therefore, proline terminates helix formation and places further constraints on the folding of the peptide chain. Peptide Bond is Planar When two amino acids are joined a peptide bond is formed through a condensation reaction. The carbonyl electrons are partially shared by the carbon nitrogen peptide bond giving the carbonyl carbon/amide nitrogen bond a slight double bond character. Because of this partial double bond character, rotation around the C-N peptide bond is prevented and thus the peptide bond is planar. This is the first and a major constraint placed on protein folding. The figure below depicts the six atoms that are included in the planar peptide bond: the carbonyl carbon, the carbonyl oxygen, the alpha carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon, the amide nitrogen (of the second amino acid), the hydrogen attached to the amide nitrogen, and the alpha carbon of the second amino acid. Two possible orientations of the planer peptide bond are possible, the trans from and the cis form. Although both are planer, the trans form is more stable and this form is shown in the diagram below. Since there is no rotation around the C-N bond of the peptide bond, the only possible freedom of rotation in an amino acid residue is the carbonyl carbon-alpha carbon single bond, which is denoted as psi(), and the amide nitrogen-alpha carbon single bond, which is called phi(). If one knows all of the phi-psi angles of rotation for every amino acid residue in a protein, it is possible to define the secondary structure of that protein. It should be noted that not all phi-psi angles are possible due to steric interference, electronic repulsion by side chains of the same charge and other factors all of which represent constraints in the folding of a protein. Side Chain Constrains and Angles Secondary structure is generally defined by the interaction of amino acids adjacent to each other in the primary sequence. Elements of secondary structure include the -helix, the beta-sheet and the beta-turn. These structures involve short range interactions that involve hydrogen bonding between peptide bonds and do not involve the interactions of amino acid side chains. Alpha Helix One of the constrained pairs of - angles gives rise to the secondary structural element referred to as the -helix. The -helix is the prominent structure seen hemoglobin shown previously. Because of the regular nature of the structure, every - angle pair in an -helix is the same. -helical structure is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between the backbone carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In -helices there are 3.7 amino acids per turn and the carbonyl of the n-th amino acid hydrogen bonds to the amide hydrogen of the n+4 amino acid. The hydrogen bonds are parallel to the long axis of the helix and the side chains extend to the outside of the helical cylinder. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions on the alpha helix. Beta-Sheet The second predominant secondary structure element is the -sheet. When the and angles are close to 180 degrees the peptide chain is fully extended, the -strand conformation exists. A -sheet forms when several -strands run either parallel or anti-parallel to each other. The structures are stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the strands and the anti-parallel structure appears to be more stable due to maximization of the number of possible hydrogen bonds. The atoms participating in hydrogen bonding in a -sheet are the same as those for -helices: the carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In the case of a -sheet the hydrogen bonds are in the plane of the sheet and perpendicular to the peptide chain. The side chains project above and below the plane of the -sheet. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions about the beta-sheet. Proline Kinks the System Proline is unusual among the amino acids and is technically referred to as an imino acid. It is a cyclic molecule forming a five member ring that closes the linear hydrocarbon side chain with the -amino group. Because of this there is no rotation about the bond and therefore, proline terminates helix formation and places further constraints on the folding of the peptide chain. When two amino acids are joined a peptide bond is formed through a condensation reaction. The carbonyl electrons are partially shared by the carbon nitrogen peptide bond giving the carbonyl carbon/amide nitrogen bond a slight double bond character. Because of this partial double bond character, rotation around the C-N peptide bond is prevented and thus the peptide bond is planar. This is the first and a major constraint placed on protein folding. The figure below depicts the six atoms that are included in the planar peptide bond: the carbonyl carbon, the carbonyl oxygen, the alpha carbon attached to the carbonyl carbon, the amide nitrogen (of the second amino acid), the hydrogen attached to the amide nitrogen, and the alpha carbon of the second amino acid. Two possible orientations of the planer peptide bond are possible, the trans from and the cis form. Although both are planer, the trans form is more stable and this form is shown in the diagram below. Since there is no rotation around the C-N bond of the peptide bond, the only possible freedom of rotation in an amino acid residue is the carbonyl carbon-alpha carbon single bond, which is denoted as psi(), and the amide nitrogen-alpha carbon single bond, which is called phi(). If one knows all of the phi-psi angles of rotation for every amino acid residue in a protein, it is possible to define the secondary structure of that protein. It should be noted that not all phi-psi angles are possible due to steric interference, electronic repulsion by side chains of the same charge and other factors all of which represent constraints in the folding of a protein. Secondary structure is generally defined by the interaction of amino acids adjacent to each other in the primary sequence. Elements of secondary structure include the -helix, the beta-sheet and the beta-turn. These structures involve short range interactions that involve hydrogen bonding between peptide bonds and do not involve the interactions of amino acid side chains. Alpha Helix One of the constrained pairs of - angles gives rise to the secondary structural element referred to as the -helix. The -helix is the prominent structure seen hemoglobin shown previously. Because of the regular nature of the structure, every - angle pair in an -helix is the same. -helical structure is stabilized by hydrogen bonding between the backbone carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In -helices there are 3.7 amino acids per turn and the carbonyl of the n-th amino acid hydrogen bonds to the amide hydrogen of the n+4 amino acid. The hydrogen bonds are parallel to the long axis of the helix and the side chains extend to the outside of the helical cylinder. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions on the alpha helix. Beta-Sheet The second predominant secondary structure element is the -sheet. When the and angles are close to 180 degrees the peptide chain is fully extended, the -strand conformation exists. A -sheet forms when several -strands run either parallel or anti-parallel to each other. The structures are stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the strands and the anti-parallel structure appears to be more stable due to maximization of the number of possible hydrogen bonds. The atoms participating in hydrogen bonding in a -sheet are the same as those for -helices: the carbonyl oxygen and the amide hydrogens. In the case of a -sheet the hydrogen bonds are in the plane of the sheet and perpendicular to the peptide chain. The side chains project above and below the plane of the -sheet. Use the 3D structure on the left to answer the following questions about the beta-sheet. Proline is unusual among the amino acids and is technically referred to as an imino acid. It is a cyclic molecule forming a five member ring that closes the linear hydrocarbon side chain with the -amino group. Because of this there is no rotation about the bond and therefore, proline terminates helix formation and places further constraints on the folding of the peptide chain.   Tertiary Structure of Proteins Hydrophobic interactions drive tertiary structure formation Amino Acid Distribution in Folded Globular Proteins Use these checkboxes to inspect the aspects of this structure in order to answer the questions to the right: Proteins contain a mix of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids. Hydrophobic molecules contain no or very few highly electronegative atoms and do not form strong bonds with water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. This is an example of the hydrophobic effect previously discussed. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Stabilization of the Folded State: The tertiary structure is determined by non-covalent interactions that involve amino acid side chains (side chain and backbone interactions, or side chain-side chain interactions). Amino acid residues involved in these interactions can come from distant parts of the polypeptide chain bringing the chain into a more compact shape. The non-covalent interactions between the side chains include the following: Iconic bonds Hydrogen bonds Hydrophobic/van der Walls interactions You should explore the Jmol structure to determine which of the following is more important in stabilizing the tertiary structure. Stabilization of the Tertiary Structure Protein G Disulfide bonds stabilize tertiary structure Protein folding and stabilization is driven primarily by non-covalent interactions. -helices and -sheets are stabilized by hydrogen bonding. Tertiary structure is driven and stabilized by hydrophobic interactions and involves all types of non-covalent bonding. As you will see in the next page, quaternary structure is stabilized primarily by all types of complimentary, non-covalent interactions. One covalent bond is possible and is formed when two cysteine amino acids (sulfhydryl containing side chain) are close together as a result of tertiary structure formation. The sulfhydryl group is highly reactive and will covalently bond with another sulfhydryl group to form a covalent disulfide bond (a cystine residue). Disulfide bonds also form between peptide chains in forming quaternary structure, for example in the structure of antibodies. The disulfide bond is reversible and is sensitive to the environment. Amino Acid Distribution in Folded Globular Proteins Use these checkboxes to inspect the aspects of this structure in order to answer the questions to the right: Proteins contain a mix of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids. Hydrophobic molecules contain no or very few highly electronegative atoms and do not form strong bonds with water. In aqueous solutions hydrophobic molecules are driven together to the exclusion of water. This is an example of the hydrophobic effect previously discussed. As a protein folds to its final three-dimensional structure, the hydrophobic parts of the protein are forced together and away from the aqueous environment of the cell. Stabilization of the Folded State: The tertiary structure is determined by non-covalent interactions that involve amino acid side chains (side chain and backbone interactions, or side chain-side chain interactions). Amino acid residues involved in these interactions can come from distant parts of the polypeptide chain bringing the chain into a more compact shape. The non-covalent interactions between the side chains include the following: Iconic bonds Hydrogen bonds Hydrophobic/van der Walls interactions You should explore the Jmol structure to determine which of the following is more important in stabilizing the tertiary structure. Stabilization of the Tertiary Structure Protein G Protein folding and stabilization is driven primarily by non-covalent interactions. -helices and -sheets are stabilized by hydrogen bonding. Tertiary structure is driven and stabilized by hydrophobic interactions and involves all types of non-covalent bonding. As you will see in the next page, quaternary structure is stabilized primarily by all types of complimentary, non-covalent interactions. One covalent bond is possible and is formed when two cysteine amino acids (sulfhydryl containing side chain) are close together as a result of tertiary structure formation. The sulfhydryl group is highly reactive and will covalently bond with another sulfhydryl group to form a covalent disulfide bond (a cystine residue). Disulfide bonds also form between peptide chains in forming quaternary structure, for example in the structure of antibodies. The disulfide bond is reversible and is sensitive to the environment.   Redox Reactions Oxidation-reduction reactions, or Redox reactions are common in metabolic pathways. Generally, degradative (catabolic) pathways cause the net oxidation of compounds, releasing energy. In contrast, synthetic (anabolilc) pathways, are generally reductive pathways. Oxidations involve the loss of electrons. Reductions involve the gain of electrons. Here are two mnemonics to help you remember where the electrons go during redox reactions: LEO GER: "leo [the lion] goes grr". Lose electrons oxidation, gain electron reduction. OIL RIG: Oxidation involves loss, reduction involves gain. An example of an oxidation is the conversion of iron from its metallic state, Fe0, to its rusted form, Fe+3, by the loss of three electrons. Oxidation and reduction of iron. Metallic iron, Fe0, becomes oxidized to Fe+3 (otherwise known as rust) by the removal of 3 electrons. The above reaction is an incomplete description of a redox reaction because it does not indicate the fate of the electrons that were obtained from iron. Since free electrons generally cannot exist, all oxidation reactions must be coupled to a corresponding reduction. Since the above reaction only describes one-half of the reaction it is referred to as a half-reaction. The oxidation of iron could be coupled to the reduction of copper ions, which is described by the following half-reaction: Reduction of copper ion from its +2 state to +1 state by gain of an electron. The complete reaction, balanced such that there are no free electrons, is: A balanced redox equation. Three copper2+ ions provide a total of three electrons to oxidize metallic iron to Fe3+. Note that there are no free electrons. The pair of compounds that exchange electrons are often referred to as a redox couple. Redox Carriers In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. The chemical structures of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are shown. These two compounds are commonly used as electron acceptors in metabolic pathways. The portion of each molecule that accepts electrons during the reduction process is highlighted in yellow. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. The oxidation of an aldehyde to a carboxylic acid. The two electrons released by the aldehyde are transferred to NAD+ to make NADH. In this diagram only the portion of NAD+/NADH that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the NAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Oxidation of FAD. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. The oxidation of an alkane to an alkene. The two electrons released by the alkane are transferred to FAD to make FADH2. In this diagram only the portion of FAD/FADH2 that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the FAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Balancing Redox Reactions It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . The addition of water to a double bond is a common reaction in many pathways. Is it a redox reaction? The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Try the following mini-tutor to test your skill at assessing whether a redox reaction has occurred. In most biochemical redox reactions a total of two electrons are transferred. These electrons are often transferred as hydrogen atoms, containing a proton and electron. Two common electron acceptors are NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide). They both can accept two electrons, giving the reduced forms NADH and FADH2, respectively. The structure of the oxidized forms of these compounds are shown below. The chemical structures of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are shown. These two compounds are commonly used as electron acceptors in metabolic pathways. The portion of each molecule that accepts electrons during the reduction process is highlighted in yellow. Oxidation of NAD+. In the oxidation of glyceraldehyde to phosphoglycerate an aldehyde is oxidized to a carboxylic acid and the released electrons are placed on to NAD+ to form NADH. The oxidation of an aldehyde to a carboxylic acid. The two electrons released by the aldehyde are transferred to NAD+ to make NADH. In this diagram only the portion of NAD+/NADH that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the NAD molecule is represented by 'R'. Oxidation of FAD. The oxidation of succinate to fumarate, using FAD as an electron acceptor is another example of a redox reaction found in a metabolic pathway. Two hydrogen atoms (= two electron plus two protons) are removed from succinate and placed on FAD, producing fumarate and FADH2, oxidizing a carbon-carbon single bond to a double bond. The oxidation of an alkane to an alkene. The two electrons released by the alkane are transferred to FAD to make FADH2. In this diagram only the portion of FAD/FADH2 that undergoes chemical changes is shown. The remaining part of the FAD molecule is represented by 'R'. It is often difficult to determine from the structure of an organic compound whether it has been oxidized or reduced in a reaction. For example, the addition of a water molecule to an double bond (alkene) appears to be a redox reaction because an -OH group has been added . The addition of water to a double bond is a common reaction in many pathways. Is it a redox reaction? The rules for balancing redox reactions are as follows: Make the number of oxygen atoms in the reactant and product equal by adding the appropriate number of water molecules to one side of the reaction or the other. Use H+, or H+ + e-, or e- to balance hydrogen atoms and/or charge. A redox reaction has occurred if electrons are consumed or released The above reaction is balanced as is, and is therefore not a redox reaction. Try the following mini-tutor to test your skill at assessing whether a redox reaction has occurred.   Equilibrium   Isontonic Equilibrium 