
Temperature: As the temperature increases, the kinetic energy of the substrate
				molecules increases, allowing more substrate molecules to become activated and
				increasing the reaction rate. This is equivalent to more skiers having the energy to
				surmount the activation energy and reach the top of the hill. Many enzymes have
				optimal activity at the temperature of the organism. However, there is a limit to how much you can increase the rate of the reaction by
				changing the temperature. If the temperature is too high, the enzyme unfolds,
				denatures, and becomes inactive.
pH: Protein structure can be affected by the pH of the solution surrounding it. If
				a protein group that is important for substrate binding or catalysis can be
				protonated or deprotonated, then changing the pH is likely to affect the enzyme
				activity. Different enzymes are functional at different pH levels. Pepsin is a
				digestive enzyme secreted by the stomach lining that is activated by the low pH in
				the stomach. Salivary amylase, on the other hand, is denatured and nonfunctional in
				the stomach environment.
Substrate concentration: As the substrate concentration increases, the
						number of substrate molecules that bind to the enzyme also increases. This
						leads to increased substrate activation. 
Presence of inhibitors: Inhibitors can reduce the activity of enzymes through two
				different mechanisms. Competitive inhibitors bind to the active site
				and prevent the substrate from attaching to the binding site. Since less substrate
				can bind to the enzyme, the activity is reduced. Noncompetitive
					inhibitors (also called mixed-type) do not bind to the active site, but
				bind elsewhere on the enzyme. However, the bound inhibitor changes the shape of the
				active site, reducing the activity of the enzyme. Drugs to treat disease often
				inhibit enzyme activity. For example, one of the drugs used to treat HIV is a
				competitive inhibitor of a specific viral enzyme, while another anti-HIV drug is a
				noncompetitive inhibitor of a different viral enzyme.
Presence of activators: Activators, like noncompetitive inhibitors, also change
				the shape of the active site by binding elsewhere on the enzyme, but in this case
				the enzyme is converted from an inactive form to an active form. In this way,
				activators increase enzyme activity.
