
CO2:
                            burning of fossil fuels, deforestation. Burning of coal, oil, and
                        natural gas transfers carbon from long-term storage in the Earth’s crust and
                        adds CO2 directly to the air. Deforestation reduces the overall
                        rate of photosynthesis and plant growth. It also returns carbon stored in
                        wood and soil to the atmosphere when wood is burned or when soils are warmed
                        up, encouraging decomposition.
Methane (CH4): fossil fuel production and transport, rice paddy
                            agriculture, ruminant livestock, landfilling of garbage, sewage
                            treatment. Methane-releasing decomposers (prokaryotes in the domain
                        Archaea) thrive under wet, low-oxygen conditions. Humans create methane
                        emissions by favoring the activity of these decomposers. Ruminant
                        livestock—cattle, goats, and so on—have this type of prokaryotes in their
                        stomachs and release methane as flatulence. Methane is also emitted when
                        natural gas escapes from wells or pipelines. In the future climate change
                        itself may also lead to big methane releases due to melting of permafrost
                        and other releases from long-term storage.
Nitrous oxide (N2O): agriculture, exhaust from internal combustion engines.
                        Humans add extra nitrous oxide (N2O) to the air through use
                        of artificial fertilizers and other agricultural practices. Nitrous oxide is
                        also produced when fuels or biomass are burned; high temperatures encourage
                        a reaction between N2 and O2 gases in the air.
                        Therefore the exhaust from internal combustion engines is a source of
                        nitrous oxide.
