
Habitat loss. Human activities destroy or change
                        habitat so that it no longer supports the growth and reproduction of a
                        species. This is widely acknowledged as the most important direct threat to
                        biodiversity worldwide. Habitats that have been profoundly changed by human
                        activities include forests (clearing), grasslands (plowing and overgrazing),
                        rivers (damming), and wetlands (draining).

Introduced species. Humans move species out of their
                        natural range and into a new area. The new species prey upon, compete with,
                        change habitat for, or otherwise harm native species, resulting in their
                        extinction. This is a particularly important threat on islands and other
                        isolated habitats, where introduced predators may decimate native prey
                        species that are not adapted to their presence.

Overharvesting. Human harvesting—hunting, fishing,
                        logging, gathering, and so on—removes individuals more quickly than they can
                        be replaced by natural reproduction. This was historically a major threat in
                        North America and Europe, but today most fish and wildlife resources are
                        fairly well-protected. Open ocean fisheries and tropical mammals, by
                        contrast, are heavily impacted by human harvesting today. For example, an
                        estimated 80% of the world’s major ocean fisheries were fully exploited,
                        overexploited, depleted, or recovering from depletion in 2005.

Animal Products and the Pet Trade. Although sport hunting and fishing are
                        well-regulated (especially in North America and Europe), many wildlife
                        species are under increasing pressure from those collecting animals for pets
                        and for their shells, tusks, and other body parts. Such diverse wildlife
                        species such as Black Bears in the US and Geckos in Asia are killed in large
                        numbers to make folk medicines in some countries, especially in Asia. In
                        addition, the high economic value of tusks from Elephants and Horns from
                        Rhinos has led to the slaughter of large numbers of these mammals in Africa,
                        leaving some populations vulnerable to extinction.

Pollution. Wastes generated by human activities change
                        habitat conditions or threaten the health of organisms directly. Nutrient
                        pollution, for example, is a global problem that harms the diversity of
                        aquatic and some terrestrial communities. Pollution of the atmosphere by
                        greenhouse gases generates climate change, a problem so complex and severe
                        that it is often counted as a separate threat category.

