
Phosphorylated Compounds Nucleoside triphosphates, such as adenosine triphosphate
        (ATP) are commonly used to store energy. The addition of an inorganic phosphate group to a
        nucleotide diphosphate to form the triphosphate requires approximately 30 kJ/mol of energy.
        The reaction showing the synthesis of ATP from ADP and phosphate is pictured below. 
Phosphorylation of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) produces adenosine triphosphate
            (ATP). This reaction requires the input of approximately 30 kJ/mol.  Formation of ATP occurs when the negatively charged phosphate group on ADP attacks the electropositive phosphate in inorganic phosphate, forming a phosphate anhydride bond with the release of water (red arrow).
 
        
        ATP can be used to phosphorylate other nucleoside diphosphates with essentially no
        input of energy, for example:
         
The myth of high-energy phosphate bonds. When a phosphate is released from ATP to form ADP, about 30
        kJ/mol of energy is released.  It is often stated, incorrectly, that the bond that is broken
        is "high-energy". In fact, its energy is no different than any other phosphate bond of the
        same type.   The release of energy is due to the fact that the products, ADP and inorganic phosphate, are lower in energy than
        ATP by 30 kJ/mol.  One reason that ATP is higher in energy is due to charge repulsion between the negatively charged phosphate groups.  Once the phosphate group is removed, the unfavorable repulsion  disappears.
Reduced redox carriers.The oxidation of metabolytes usually produces energy, If
        this energy was not captured in some way, it would be lost as heat. The reduced form of
        redox carriers, such as NADH and FADH2, are higher in energy than their
        corresponding oxidized forms, capturing the energy that would otherwise be lost as heat. For
        example, the oxidation of isocitrate to ketoglutarate releases approximately 70 kJ/mol, 60
        of which is captured by converting NAD+ to NADH.
High energy thioesters are often produced by oxidative steps. For example, the
        energy released by the oxidation of an aldehyde is stored in both the reduced form of
          NAD+ as well in a thioester. The hydrolysis of the thioester can be used to
        synthesize nucleoside triphosphates or to facilitate the formation of carbon-carbon bonds,
        as shown below. 
The oxidation of the aldehyde to the thioester is highlighted in green. CoA is
            coenzyme A, a nucleotide containing cofactor that is an essential co-substrate for many
            reactions. Part of the energy of this oxidation, 60 kJ/mol, is captured by the formation
            of NADH. The energy stored in the thioester can be used to either phosphorylate GDP to
            form GTP, capturing another 30 kJ/mol. In the case of acetyl-CoA (lower diagram) the
            thioester facilitates the attachment of the acetyl group to oxaloacetate to form
            citrate, the first compound in the TCA cycle.


Proton gradient The transfer of electrons from NADH and FADH2 to
        oxygen to form water during the electron transport chain, provides energy for the pumping of
        protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane. This is equivalent to pumping water up hill
        to fill a reservoir. As the protons flow back through the membrane, the energy released is
        used to generate ATP, in much the same way water generates electricity in a hydroelectric
        plant.
