
"Learn By Doing" and "Explore further" These links take you to exercises
							you can repeat multiple times. They will usually be interactive and help
							you to understand the concept being discussed. These activities are "low
							stakes." You will not be graded on these activities.
"Did I Get This" links take you to self-assessment questions. These
							exercises are graded for your information only; the grade is not
							recorded in the grade book. Many of the questions will contain hints and
							feedback to help you guide your learning and review of the material. You
							may take these quizzes as many time as you like.
"Many Students Wonder" are activities that provide additional detail or
							material. These materials supplement the ideas being presented with
							articles showcasing current research, items in the news, or other
							interesting tidbits.
"Quiz" This is a graded assessment. The grade will be recorded in the
							gradebook, and you can take these quizzes only one time. You should take
							these quizzes only after you have mastered the other activities such as
							the "Learn By Doing" and "Did I Get This." These assessments are not
							available in the Open and Free version of the course.
"My Response" This activity serves two functions. The My Response
							buttons in the content follow questions posed in the text. You should
							treat these questions as practice for the exam. Your first response will
							be saved for you to view in the future. The responses are not graded but
							are visible to the instructors and may be used in classroom dicussion.
							The second use of the "My Response" button is at the end of a lesson
							just before a graded exam. This activity is you chance to send questions
							to the instructors. The questions can be for clarification of the
							material or for something you find confusing. The questions can also be
							for further information. The questions you pose are visible to the
							instructors may be used for in class discussion.
