
Sequences involved in maintaining the plasmid in the cell.
            
First, the expression plasmid contains a section of DNA that is an origin of
                replication. This ensures that when it is placed into a bacterial host cell, it will
                be successfully replicated. The origin of replication on the plasmid is similar to
                the origin of replication that is found on the bacterial chromosome.


The expression plasmid must also contain a section of DNA that encodes a protein
                that will confer antibiotic resistance on the bacterial cells that contain the
                plasmid. This provides a method to select the bacterial cells that contain the
                plasmid, because if they have the plasmid, they will be able to grow in the presence
                of an antibiotic while cells that do not have the plasmid will die.

Sequences that allow the insertion of the synthetic DNA into the plasmid.
        
These are short DNA sequences that are recognized by restriction endonucleases, in
                the case of this plasmid they are the EcoR1 and BamH1 sites. Restriction
                endonucleases cut the DNA at these sequences, allowing the insertion of the
                synthetic gene between the sites. The actual mechanism is discussed in the next
                section.

Sequences involved in transcribing the DNA to mRNA.
        
The expression plasmid must also contain a promoter that is recognized by RNA
                polymerase. This promoter is adjacent to the growth hormone gene and will enable
                the transcription of the growth hormone gene into mRNA.
The expression plasmid must contain a DNA sequence that allows a repressor protein
                        to bind. The repressor protein can then act as an on-off switch for mRNA
                        production. An on/off switch is important because the production of growth
                        hormone can interfere with cell division and the production of the growth
                        hormone should be off until a sufficient number of cells are obtained. The
                        most common repressor protein that is used is the lac repressor. The lac
                        repressor binds to a specific DNA sequence called the lac operator. You may
                        want to review the properties of the lac
                            operon. The addition of an inducer molecule, such as
                        lactose, will cause the repressor to fall off of the DNA, allowing RNA
                        polymerase to produce mRNA. It is important that the operator sequence is
                        placed between the promoter and the DNA that encodes the mRNA so that mRNA
                        cannot be made unless an inducer is added.

Sequences involved in translating the mRNA to Protein
        
The expression plasmid must have a DNA sequence that will encode a ribosome binding
                        site on the mRNA. This sequence, which will be found at the beginning of the
                        mRNA, will allow the mRNA to bind to the bacterial ribosome, initiating the
                        process of protein synthesis. This segment must be part of the mRNA and it
                        has to occur just before the start codon to position the mRNA correctly on
                        the ribosome.

