
Silent mutation – Because of the degeneracy of the genetic code, multiple
				triplet codes represent the same amino acid. Thus, a change in the sequence for a
				code may not result in a change in amino acid. This particularly applies to the
				wobble or third base in a triplet code sequence. Thermophylic bacteria that operate
				optimally at high temperatures have optimized the use of the degeneracy to include
				codons with high G and C content to increase the thermal stability (higher melting
				temperature) of the resulting duplex DNA. 

Missense mutation – Some mutations result in the changing of a codon to
				represent a different amino acid. Missense mutations that change the amino acid can
				have no effect on the structure of a protein or may have a dramatic effect on the
				folding of a protein causing loss of function.

Nonsense mutation – Another class of mutations may result in the changing
				of a codon to one of the three termination or stop codons. This will result in
				premature stop in the translation of a protein. Such a mutation at the beginning of
				the translation sequence will generally result in total loss of function which some
				nonsense mutations near the normal termination of the coding sequence may have
				little or no effect on the function of the resulting protein.

Frame-shift mutations – Occasionally a mutation will occur that results in
				either the insertion or deletion of an extra base in the coding sequence. This type
				of mutation results in a shifting of the “reading” frame for the triplet codes after
				the insertion or deletion and production of a meaningless sequence of protein after
				that point. Again depending on where the insertion or deletion occurs, the effect
				can vary on the final product. It should also be noted that this reading frame shift
				will also change the position of the termination codon giving either a premature
				termination of the translation or an extended coding sequence.
