
Sugars are degraded as follows: 
Glycolysis is the first pathway used to degrade sugars and it is located in
            the cytoplasm. The simple monosaccharide, glucose, is considered to be the
            entry point to this pathway. The three carbon keto acid, pyruvate, is the final
            product of glycolysis. Glycolysis generates a small amount of energy in the form of the
            high energy compound ATP and high energy electrons, carried on organic electron
            carriers. These electrons are brought into the mitochondria. 
The citric acid cycle, or tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA), is the second
            pathway in the degradation of sugars. It is located in the matrix of the mitochondria.
            Pyruvate enters the TCA cycle by loss of CO2 to produce a key metabolic
            intermediate, acetyl-CoA. The remaining two carbons from pyruvate are lost as
            carbon dioxide in the TCA cycle. The energy released by these oxidations is stored on
            high-energy electron carriers.
The electron transport chain consists of a number of proteins that exist as
            four distinct complexes in the inner membrane of the mitochondria. This pathway takes
            the electrons from the high energy electron carriers and deposits them on oxygen,
            generating water. This releases energy, which is used to produce a high concentration of
            protons, or a proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane.
ATP synthase, which is final step in energy generation, utilizes the proton
            gradient to synthesize ATP. This multi-protein enzyme complex also resides in the inner
            mitochondrial matrix.


Amino Acids  are largely degraded by entry into the TCA cycle, followed by
        electron transport, and finally ATP synthesis from the proton gradient.
Fats, in the form of triglycerides, are first broken down into glycerol and fatty
        acids. The fatty acids are oxidized by the beta-oxidation pathway, which coverts the carbon
        in the fatty acid to Acetyl-CoA. The acetyl-CoA enters the TCA cycle, this is again followed
        by electron transport, and then ATP synthesis. 
