
Substrate availability. If the substrate concentration increases, the
				rate of a reaction will increase. Put simply, substrates must collide with enzymes
				to initiate binding. Such collisions will occur more often if the substrate is
				highly concentrated. Note that too much of the substrate can saturate the enzyme, so
				above a certain amount of substrate, the reaction speed will not increase
				anymore.
Competitive inhibition. An inhibitor “competes” with the substrate for
				the active site. If the inhibitor binds first, the substrate is blocked from
				entering and the enzyme is inhibited (cannot complete any reactions). Competitive
				inhibitors are often used as drugs to block an undesirable metabolic pathway. For
				example, sulfa antibiotics are competitive inhibitors of the bacterial pathway that
				produces folic acid, an essential molecule for nucleic acid synthesis. Products of a
				reaction are often competitive inhibitors, because they bind to the active
				site.
Noncompetitive control. This mechanism is similar to competitive
				control, except in this case substances bind to a site away
				from the active site. Binding can either enhance or inhibit the enzyme’s function by
				changing the shape of the active site. This is the example that you saw above with
				glycolysis.
Feedback inhibition. Both competitive and noncompetitive controls are often
				set up so that a product inhibits its own production by inhibiting enzymes at an
				early step in the synthesis process. This regulates the pathway: the product “turns
				off” its own production by inhibiting an enzyme on its own “assembly line.” This
				prevents the overproduction of a substance and also prevents the waste of resources
				on unnecessary intermediate products. Feedback inhibition is observed
				when a product inhibits an earlier step in the pathway. Product inhibition occurs
				when the product inhibits the enzyme that was directly involved in making that
				product. 
Modification of the enzyme. Chemical modification of enzymes (such as
				adding a phosphate group) can cause a change in the shape of the active site of the
				enzyme. The change may either increase or decrease enzyme activity. This is similar
				to noncompetitive control, except in this case the enzyme is chemically modified and
				control does not involve the binding of a large molecule to the enzyme. 
Changing enzyme concentrations. Enzyme levels can be increased by 1)
				conversion of inactive forms of the enzyme to active forms, or 2) regulating the
				synthesis of the enzyme. An example of the former is blood clotting, where inactive
				precursors of clotting enzymes become activated, in a cascade, by blood vessel
				damage. This permits a very quick response to bleeding: all the necessary factors
				are present and require only an activating signal. Similarly, many digestive enzymes
				are activated only when they reach their destination (for example, gastric fluid of
				low pH). Elsewhere they are inactive — and thus do not digest the organ that
				secretes them. It takes longer to adjust enzyme levels by regulating the activity of
				genes that produce them. Such changes are most often seen in response to longer-term
				changes in the environment. For example, bacteria turn genes for digestive enzymes
				on and off depending on the nutrients that are available to them. Many animal genes
				are produced only during certain stages of development.
