
Each pathway contains multiple intermediate products, and there are
					small molecular differences between the intermediates. Pathways proceed in
				“baby steps.” A chemical change that can be written and balanced as a single
				reaction may, in a real pathway, require dozens of reaction steps! 

An Example of a Linear Metabolic Pathway 
This pathway shows the production of the end product “D” from the
						starting substrate “A.” In this reaction, A is the substrate of enzyme 1,
						which produces B. Enzyme 2 then uses B as its substrate to produce C. Enzyme
						3 then uses C as its substrate to produce D.


Each step within the pathway, or the conversion from one
					intermediate to the next, is catalyzed by an enzyme. Thousands of enzymes
				catalyze reactions in human cells. Each enzyme conducts a single chemical reaction.
				The coordination of many enzymes working together can produce a variety of outcomes. 

An Example of a Branched Metabolic Pathway 
Each enzyme within the pathway is specific to one reaction. The
						direction of the arrows indicate that this pathway is an anabolic, or
						synthetic, pathway where complex biomolecules D and F are synthesized using
						the simpler molecule A as starting material. The coordinated effort of many
						enzymes can produce a variety of final products.


Each pathway is regulated to ensure the optimal use of resources
					and to maintain the health of the cell. For example, if there is plenty of
				ATP in a cell, the cellular respiration pathway (which produces ATP as its final
				product) will slow down. In a complex web of cause and effect, pathways influence
				themselves and each other. The net effect in a healthy cell is the maintenance of
				homeostasis. Stockpiles of raw materials, intermediates, and finished products are
				maintained at optimal levels, and the chemistry of the cell cytosol is also
				regulated, as are extracellular fluids. Many metabolic pathways are reversible,
					which means that certain chemical reactions can go “either way,” depending on
					the needs of the cell. For example, some of the reactions that are part of
					cellular respiration (which is a catabolic pathway) can become anabolic when
					there is a surplus of energy. A small number of steps utilize different enzymes
					in the forward versus the reverse direction. These enzymes are regulated in a
					coordinated fashion such that a pathway operates in only direction at time.

Catabolic and Anabolic Reactions
Animals use fats and complex carbohydrates such as glycogen for
						long-term energy storage. When energy is needed, catabolic pathways degrade
						lipids and glycogen to glucose or other intermediates of the cellular
						respiration pathway, resulting in ATP production. When there is excess ATP
						(for example after eating a meal rich in fats and sugars), parts of the
						cellular respiration pathway go “in reverse” to provide building blocks for
						the anabolic reactions building up lipids and glycogen.


